## Grinder Showdown: Wilfa Svart vs Baratza Encore

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1gm6UfD9qSc>

hi today we are going to review two
grinders now about a week or two ago I
posted a review of this the world-first
spark grinder and what have you said
that's cool but how does it compare to
the brass uncle so I did what any normal
person would do and I went online and I
bought a beretta encore so today I'm
gonna do my best to compare and review
the two first things first let's talk
about look and build now for me the
build quality on the wilfer is actually
just a little bit higher like it feels a
little bit more sturdy both in the
hopper and hopper adjustment as well as
in the body and the buttons itself the
browser is not badly built but to me it
does feel a little bit cheaper a little
bit more lightweight now the switch on
the side for sure doesn't feel as
stadium as well built as the controls on
the side of the wilfer let's talk about
usability now both grinders use the
hopper on top as a way to adjust the
ground you're going to twist both of
them as a way to control your ground
settings and that works pretty well they
both feel pretty solid pretty meaty to
turn it's pretty a little bit easier to
move this one this feels a little bit
more solid a bit stiff the buttons
themselves for me that wilfer hands down
the quality of button and the quality of
dial are undeniably superior to the
switch on the side of this and to be
honest I don't really loves the little
start/stop just hold it down - Run
button on the front of this grinder I
don't really find it particularly useful
however when it comes to the pins where
the ground copy ends up i've astley
prefer the design and usability of the
bharata little bucket it's not a huge
point but it's a point in order to
properly compare the grinders what I've
done here is set them both to a setting
that produces the same strength and
therefore extraction when brewing a 750
ml batch of coffee on my wilfer batch
brewer this way we can compare them at a
fair kind of matching grind setting
first test is how long it takes each
grinder to grow in a fixed batch of copy
at that setting I'm going to dose 30
grams of coffee into each grinder and
see which one grinds it the quickest
so interestingly the will for grinding
twice as quickly for the same batch and
same grain size as the encore big wind
for the willful mouth what we need to do
now is compare the grind quality of each
grinder now doing this through taste
will be a little bit flawed if I'm just
to brew from each that's a pretty
terrible way to do a taste comparison it
should be at least blind it should be at
least a triangle test doing a non blind
a be test between these two grinders is
a waste of my time and yours so I've
come up with a different way of
assessing the two things recently
I'll send a crew sifter now I'll talk
about this another time I'm going to
take a 30 gram dose of meat grinder and
sift it now the two sips 400 micron and
250 micron both much smaller than the
desirable particle size for the kind of
grind setting we have here so really
only fines should be sifted through into
those two stages and we can compare the
amount of fines that each grinder
produces to kind of have a relatively
insightful look at the grind quality one
thing to note at this stage this grinder
has been in use daily for four months
now this grinder has been in use for one
day so the burrs are not equal age
however I don't know how that's going to
impact the test yet
a few moments later late err so I have
the same groin selling both grinders
producing extremely similar amounts of
sub 400 micro non sub 250 micron files
that kind of makes sense in many ways
the bruises from both have tasted very
very very similar one final objective
test when it comes to these grinders and
and that's noise for me there's quite a
big difference in noise and so I've got
a little decibel meter app and I'm just
gonna test the sound of each grinder and
see which one is louder for me I want a
quiet grinder I want that to be
something that doesn't disturb people in
the house first thing in the morning
made me self-conscious about grinding my
coffee I wanted it to be as quiet as it
can be
ferm placed equidistant from both
grinders and the Wilfer is a little bit
quieter time for conclusions at 105
pounds this is a great buy hard to
dispute that fact at 150 pounds the
brighter is more expensive when it comes
to grind quality both grinders are
producing very similar results hard to
talk too much about in the cup because I
haven't brewed as nearly as much coffee
with this grown as I have with this one
but objectively they're both doing a
very similar job when it comes to
another same grind settings so if you're
looking for something for filter coffee
they both are excellent choices now
would I go to the trouble of sourcing
this grinder somewhere it wasn't
available over this grinder no would not
brats are worldwide they often have good
support that's an important aspect of
buying any piece of equipment so if
there's a good support network this is
great purchase if this has a good
support network it's another great
purchase
but overall to the design terms of some
aspects of usability and build and for
price my preference is for the Wilfer

so there's my first head-to-head review
let me know if these things you think I
missed let me know if this thing's you
want to know about grinders or about any
equipment that I didn't touch on this
time around let me know if these things
you want me to go seek out get hold of
and review what kind of things are
interesting to you leave me a comment
below I'd love to hear what you think

subscribe thing it would be nice
