## There Is No "World's Strongest Coffee"

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8jAMOAmYCJI>

there is no strongest coffee in the
world doesn't exist and that's probably
a confusing thing for me to say because
if you're interested in coffee you've
probably been served an ad by a company
offering you the strongest coffee in the
world i'm here to say
it's not and it doesn't exist and i
should explain myself turns out we use
the word strength in a really confusing
way in fact we use it
four different ways and i would argue
only one of those is correct and so
today we're going to go through each of
the ways that we use the word strength
understand it a little bit more learn
from it a little bit more and at the end
of it
i think you'll understand how i can
claim that there is no strongest coffee
in the world
now i have here a bag of coffee from one
of the many brands claiming to sell the
strongest coffee in the world i have
pixelated and blurred it because having
looked into it mostly they're very small
companies often they don't even roast
themselves and i'm not here to to be
mean to someone else's business just
because i sort of disagree with their
marketing what's inside the bag though i
think is a pretty good example of what
you're typically being sold with these
kind of coffees let's have a look
this coffee is a pretty dark roasted
robusta coffee that's the species
robusta and what you'll tend to find is
that robusta broadly speaking has about
twice the caffeine content of arabica
because the first way that we use the
word strength is to talk about caffeine
content the more caffeine it has the
stronger it is
and i cannot understand where they're
going with that but caffeine's not as
simple as you want it to be now caffeine
is pretty water-soluble so you'd think
however much is in the ground coffee
should end up in the cup but confusingly
it doesn't always seem to be that way
you'll see loads of studies where they
go out and buy drinks from different
coffee shops and they report the
caffeine contents in there and they're
really variable in kind of a surprising
way but broadly speaking the amount of
caffeine in your cup of coffee will
correlate to how much was in the beans
to start with and then how effectively
you've extracted it from there but
you know only part of that really is
intrinsic to the coffee itself and
yes robusta has on average twice the
caffeine content but it can be more it
can be less
very rarely do i see anyone reporting a
kind of milligrams of caffeine per kilo
or per gram of coffee on the bags i
think most people are just saying oh
it's robust it's twice the caffeine
yes this is very strong i guess we
should brew this up
so we've got a cup of coffee with i
suspect a good amount of caffeine in it
but you know there's certainly ways to
brew coffee where you might get more out
i think longer steeps for example would
probably be more effective something
like a very long french press brew or
like a super long aeropress brew if
you're desperate for full
access to caffeine but here's the thing
you can buy caffeine in pill form if
you're desperate for caffeine there are
there are much gentler ways to consume
it you can have the cup of coffee that
you want and just take a a caffeine pill
if that's your kind of requirement as
for whether caffeine is a good idea or
not well we made a video all about
caffeine i'll leave it linked up here
and in the description down below you
can make up your own mind about how much
caffeine you should be consuming
now the second way that we use strength
in this kind of scenario is one that
you've seen on the front of a bag of
coffee in fact we made a video about
this as well about buying coffee and
understanding what the labels mean often
you'll see a strength rating on a bag of
coffee and again that's kind of back to
an intrinsic quality of the coffee and
really what they're saying there is not
strength they're giving you roast level
so a strength five will be a very dark
gross the strength two will be a very
light roast it's nothing really to do
with the word strength it's a completely
inappropriate use of the word strength
but it's a sort of nice way for sort of
supermarkets and others to talk about
roast level in a way that doesn't
involve the complexities of trying to
describe the color of a coffee bean now
that shorthand on the outside of a bag
really is shorthand for the third way
that we use strength which is kind of
intensity of bitterness let's go with
that like you might sip a coffee that's
incredibly bitter and say uh
too strong i don't like it and that's a
very sort of good word for communicating
what you like or don't like but it's
actually not quite the correct word the
idea should be oh that's too bitter
that's too harsh that tastes burnt that
it's bad but too strong actually is
talking about something else
this coffee
woof
yeah is uh is a pretty dark roast of
robusta which itself typically has
higher levels of bitterness so
this cup tastes very bitter
but it would be incorrect of me to say
this cup tastes
very strong but all of this brings us to
the sort of final usage of the word
strength the one that i think is the
correct usage the one that certainly we
use here on this channel and i'm going
to give you a sort of more in-depth
explanation of why it's important to use
that term strength and actually how it's
really useful to understand it when it
comes to better coffee brewing every day
all of that will come after a short ad
from this video sponsor which is
squarespace if you need a website or a
domain i would recommend squarespace
they make it so easy it doesn't really
matter what it is you want to make it
could be a website for your cafe it
could be a portfolio of your work it
could be an e-commerce store it's all
built right into squarespace
you start with one of their beautiful
templates and that means that it's going
to look great on every device every
browser and you begin to fill it with
your words your images your ideas your
products it could be anything and once
it's up and it's live there's nothing
really to take care of nothing to patch
or upgrade or install it's gonna look
beautiful from that point onwards
as i always say don't take my word for
it click the link down below and sign up
for a free trial explore build create
something and when you're ready to
launch use coach james hoffman for 10
percent off any website or domain think
of a squarespace for sponsoring this
video
so the true definition of strength in
coffee the true meaning the true
understanding really is trying to answer
the question of how much of this cup is
water
and how much is dissolved ground coffee
and and that tells me essentially how
strong the cup is if you drink alcohol
you'll be familiar with the idea of
strength from an alcohol perspective on
the side of a beer or a glass of wine or
a bottle of whiskey you'll see a
percentage of alcohol that tells you how
strong it is how much of this shot of
whiskey is ethanol might be 40 booze and
you understand how strong that is if
it's a glass of wine it might be 10 12
14 the percentage makes sense of the
strength in a very neat easy way you can
do exactly the same thing with a cup of
coffee you can use a little device to
calculate what percentage of this cup
is dissolved ground coffee typically
speaking a filtered coffee will be
anywhere from one to one and a half
percent strength as a kind of ballpark
it will vary and as i said there's no
right answer there but that's the kind
of rough strength that you'll find in
filter coffee espresso is more like 8 to
12 somewhere there so nothing really
gets past wine levels of strength now
the the way we calculate strength these
days is to use a refractometer these are
devices that you put a sample of coffee
onto the little readout here and you
push a button and it calculates the
refractive index now any liquid will
have a refractive index it's essentially
the speed of light through that liquid
but
being overly simplistic probably doesn't
help then a coffee focus refractometer
will take the refractive index do a
little bit of mathematics a little bit
of algorithmic work and spit out a
percentage strength of coffee you can't
measure coffee's strength with a typical
refractometer that isn't built for
coffee because it doesn't do the
algorithmic conversion to a percentage
strength specific for the beverage
there's a couple of these on the market
the pioneering model was from vst which
is this one here a guy called vince
verdeli did it
fundamentally changed the coffee brewing
game forever by allowing us to
understand how strong a cup of coffee
was in in a really accurate way why is
that important that's a very good
question because on its own strength
isn't actually particularly useful i
could measure the strength of this cup
of coffee and i could taste it and i
could say oh it tastes bad and the
strength is this therefore that strength
is bad but but that's not the way it
works and in fact if i dilute this down
the quality of this cup of coffee is the
same the flavors that it has are the
same but it is now a weaker cup so
strength on its own is actually not that
important what it is though is a point
of preference how strong you like your
coffee is down to you there's no right
answer in the world of strength once you
work out what strength you like you can
kind of work out how much coffee you
should use to get to that strength but
if you know how much of this cup is
coffee essentially or dissolved coffee
and you know how big the cup of coffee
is or what the mass of the coffee is
then as long as you know how much coffee
you started with you can calculate
extraction
now that seems immediately a little bit
confusing so i'll go with a different
sort of practical example i pulled two
double shots of espresso i dosed 20
grams in each time
and i pulled about 40 grams out each
time
in the end i had about 80 grams of
liquid that went into a dehydrator and
then the two spent pucks that started as
being 20 grams each they went into a
dehydrator and this is kind of how it
used to work though they really only
used to focus on the spent pucks of
coffee and not so much the liquid
let's see what we get at the end of that
so i've got i've got two pucks these
would have weighed 40 grams in total to
start with uh obviously when you freshly
brewed them they've got quite a lot of
water inside them so you can't really
tell how much coffee you got out
but if we weigh them now stack them up
they now weigh
32.4 grams so you can say if i started
with 40 grams and i got 32.4 grams then
i i took out 7.6 grams
in terms of my extraction those that's
how much
dissolved coffee was taken from this
puck and put into the cup that would be
consumed if you divide 7.6 by 40 or you
turn it into a percentage you've got 19
so you would say that i've extracted 19
of the ground coffee now historically
there were guidelines on the desired
level of extraction it was said to be
sort of 18 to 22 percent was the the
good range for coffee brewing what we
found more recently is that we've been
able to take that number higher and
higher and higher using different
techniques different grinders a whole
bunch of other stuff without it tasting
bad but in many scenarios 18 to 22
percent is a good
starting point in this whole thing so on
a kind of technical level these were
good brews not incredible not bad but
kind of fine
this
is what we extracted
and what we've made here
is possibly the world's worst instant
coffee
this is kind of what instant coffee is
except you don't dehydrate it in a hot
environment instant coffee is
freeze-dried to concentrate it as a
result you end up with a much nicer
looking end product that doesn't taste
nearly as bad this has just been cooked
to dry and would be completely
disgusting it's sort of um i'll see if i
can
oh yeah
but all of this
here
is is this basically
yeah it's basically instant coffee
don't don't drink this i presume it
would taste completely terrible
you would assume this would taste
terrible i mean it should it will taste
terrible
i'm gonna have to taste it aren't i
i don't know whether to turn it into a
cup of coffee or just to eat it this has
been cooked for two days this was an
espresso cooked for two days dried out
oh no
it's disgusting
but it also really tastes like marmite
or vegemite
like it
like it really very savory
just oh there it goes okay
why am i doing this this is not the
point of this video look kids if you
make your own instant coffee
use a freeze dryer don't um
don't dehydrate it in a small dehydrator
that's disgusting i'll wrap up as i
recover from that why is this important
well very simply i use the term strength
quite a lot i'll talk about strength the
impact of different grinders or brew
methods on strength and then extraction
too and i did think it was time to make
a video discussing that and explaining
that in a little bit more detail
explaining refractometers explaining
the kind of mechanics of extraction in a
way
by using strength in a whole host of
different ways i think it's actually
really confusing and frustrating if i
took let's say a light roast of a decaf
coffee
and i brewed it at a really high ratio
so or i pulled a shot of it right
that would be low strength because it's
a light roast according to the kind of
strength rating it'll be low strength
because it's decaf it's got no caffeine
in it
it would be
low strength because it probably
wouldn't taste particularly bitter as an
espresso but it would probably be about
10 strength as a beverage which means it
would be really strong
so it's strong but it's not and that to
me just is ridiculous it's unhelpful
it's confusing and i wanted to create a
little bit of clarity uh and try and use
the words appropriately in future videos
and just help you understand the world
of coffee a little bit
more
but now i want to hear from you which
aspect of strength doesn't make sense
still are you frustrated by the fact
that people use strength in all of these
different weird ways have you tried
something claiming to be the strongest
coffee in the world
did you eat it raw as whole beans
because that's really the only way to
have it be truly the strongest possible
cup
anyway let me know down in the comments
below but for now i'll say thank you so
much for watching and i hope you have a
great day
