## A Beginner's Guide to Resting Coffee

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Py8JOi3REg&t=677s>

today we're going to talk about resting
coffee we're going to talk about the
sort of science behind why we rest
coffee and cover best practices for
resting it for espresso brewing and also
for filter brewing now i think resting
coffee very quickly becomes a point of
anxiety in someone's coffee journey at
the start you understand that fresh is
good and therefore you think fresher is
better and you go online and you buy
coffee from a roaster and they ship it
to you the day it's roasted so you're
like okay great this is super fresh
therefore it is super good and then you
hear
no
maybe not maybe fresher is sort of
better but it still needs to rest and
age a little bit before you brew it and
then you're stuck with the question of
how long should i rest it for what's the
right amount am i am i brewing this too
soon am i missing out something did i
did i rested too long have most of the
good flavors gone what's the right thing
to do
and i think if we understand what's
going on inside the coffee if we
understand how it affects the brewing
process then you can make an informed
decision because a bunch of the factors
that affect resting are kind of down to
you your home your lifestyle and your
brew method let's start at the top let's
talk about why we rest coffee all of
this starts in the roasting process when
you roast coffee there's a bunch of
chemistry going on a bunch of browning
reactions and almost all of those
produce carbon dioxide as a byproduct a
surprising amount of carbon dioxide
you'll often see a study cited that says
a kilo of coffee will produce 10 liters
of co2 during the roasting process now
most of this escapes the coffee bean
during the roasting process now to say
that one kilo of coffee does that makes
10 liters i think is confusing and
actually disingenuous it produces a lot
of co2 but how you roast it especially
the darkness of the roast really really
really impacts the amount of co2 that
you produce
light roasts produce a lot less co2 than
dark roasts the darker you roast the
more of these kind of browning reactions
you have right up until the point of
combustion which i don't recommend
reaching but does produce an enormous
amount of co2 now as i said most of the
co2 does escape the coffee bean during
the roasting process but quite a lot is
trapped inside and over time it will
slowly leach out it'll just sort of come
out of the bean
but there's a couple of factors that
determine this as i said the lighter you
roast the less co2 that you're going to
have but confusingly the lighter you
roast the denser the end coffee bean is
that means the harder it is for the co2
that is trapped inside it to get out now
a dark roast will produce a lot more co2
but the bean can't keep hold of it
because that roasting process has made
it so much more porous the beans puff
out and become less and less dense and
more brittle the darker you roast them
and so with a very dark roast the bean
can't really keep hold of the co2 inside
of it and that's kind of it this is the
thing that i really want you to focus on
which is what coffee do i have again the
higher grown a coffee would be
the more dense the seed is going to be
the slower it will degas now why are we
worried about it degassing in the first
place well when you finally come to brew
coffee water hitting the grounds really
helps liberate a lot of the co2 when
you're making a filter coffee say a v60
you'll see that in the bloom the fresher
the coffee is the bigger the bloom
you'll see as you start to sort of pour
water onto the grounds again this is a
pretty good visual if you take a dark
roast you'll typically see especially a
fresh one a much bigger bloom than you
would see in a lighter roast even if
that light roast is very very fresh
because it just really is a lot less co2
in lighter roasted coffees now while
filtered coffee might be a very good
visual explainer of kind of blooming
about the co2 traps inside the coffee
bean it really causes trouble when we
come to a much more intense brewing
process like espresso
there if you have a lot of co2 coming
out of the coffee and again typically
you're using darker or more developed
roast that will have a little bit more
co2 than say a filter coffee but in that
scenario co2 coming out of the grounds
as the water is hitting can be very
disruptive to the brewing process making
it harder and harder to properly extract
the coffee therefore with both filter
coffee and espresso what we tend to do
is rest the coffee for a period of time
to allow some of the co2 out hopefully
not let any real stalin reactions take
place and then when we brew the coffee
it's easier to brew and it's easier to
extract and ultimately will taste
better before we get into specific
recommendations around resting coffees
for filtering espresso i do just want to
touch on one other thing that i think is
really interesting you can in certain
situations
shortcut the resting period this can be
done actually at the roasting stage in
terms of how you cool the coffee this
was taught to me what must be 15 plus
years ago by tim wendell who had needed
to use a coffee a few days after
roasting in a coffee competition and
what they've done is they'd used what's
called quenching to cool the coffee
traditionally in a lot of specialty
companies coffee will come out of the
roaster into a cooling tray and a fan
will drag ambient air through the bed of
coffee to cool it down to room
temperature within two or three minutes
once you get into roasting very large
batches of coffee you can't actually do
that there's too much thermal mass and
if you don't cool the coffee fast enough
then it can kind of keep roasting in the
tray and eventually potentially catch
fire with darker roasts what you tend to
see there for are called quenching
systems where you spray a very fine mist
of water onto the coffee beans this mist
should hit the coffee beans that are
about 200 plus degrees celsius and
instantly evaporate and that evaporative
cooling really drops the temperature of
the coffee beans very very very fast the
more you quench
the more outgassing of co2 you have at
the same time it seems the coffee as a
whole seems to stale faster when it has
been quenched this is occasionally
useful if you're a roaster and you
really need to brew a coffee very
quickly especially for espresso then yes
you can use just a spray bottle almost
and spray cool the coffee you don't want
to add water to the coffee beans
everything you spray on wants to
evaporate if you leave water in the
coffee beans you will rapidly accelerate
stalin and the coffee will taste bad
pretty quickly this is occasionally done
by unscrupulous people who know that
when you roast a kilo of coffee you
might only get 850 grams out because of
loss of moisture and other things during
the roasting process if you add some
water back in you might end up with 900
grams instead and you can sell water for
the price of coffee but that coffee will
not taste good and it will not age well
but that's maybe not your concern if
you're just trying to make as much money
as possible i can't give you specific
instances of this happening but it is a
thing that you can do should you be an
unscrupulous coffee roaster and a
business person going all the way back
that's kind of the the one sort of cheat
in it to really make a difference to the
speed of outgassing but a couple of
other things do make a difference the
temperature in which you store coffee
really matters
you'll see this when you freeze coffee
you can still have a coffee that at the
end of it has quite a lot of crema when
you brew it it still tastes really good
it's like it's still fresh in many ways
the warmer the environment that you
store your coffee in the more rapidly it
will degas
that can be useful but know that you're
also accelerating other stalin reactions
oxidization all of the things that you
don't really want to happen to the
coffee generally speaking the kind of
room temperature of around 20 degrees
celsius is about as hot as i would
recommend storing coffee though i
understand that in certain parts of the
world in certain situations you can't
store it that cool but just know you
should not rest the coffee as long
because it is degassing that much faster
so you'll have noticed that most bags of
coffee that ship around the world have
in them a little valve you won't always
see it clearly on the outside of the
packaging there might be just a few
holes here what's inside it's generally
something like this it's a very simple
usually plastic valve that allows gas
out
but doesn't allow fresh oxygen in
know that if you let a bag of coffee
degas it does not substantially change
the quantity of oxygen inside the bag
the co2 does not displace air left
inside the bag it'll displace both co2
and air together at a similar ratio so
it's not a cheap way to somehow gas
flush your coffee by having the co2 push
out any air in the bag not true does not
work this you'll see on bags of beans
though it's really truly essential on
bags of ground coffee if you seal a bag
of ground coffee without a valve it will
burst the pressure of the gas coming out
of the ground is usually enough to
rupture the seal on a bag and it just
makes a bit of a mess occasionally
you'll see a bag where the the valve has
failed and you might see a puffy bag
that looks a bit weird that coffee is
totally fine it's not bad it's not
suffering from a lack of degassing it'll
still be degassing at a reasonable rate
uh it might seem a touch fresher when
you very first open it but really it's
not worth not buying or it's not worth
freaking out about if if a valve has
failed though just be aware that if it's
a lot of dark roasted coffee in there
again that pressure may rupture the bag
a lot of people like to use storage jars
like this that's no bad thing they'll
use vacuum chambers like this uh these i
think confuse a lot of people if you put
very fresh coffee into one of these jars
that lets you pull a vacuum and shows
you that you've got a little vacuum
pulled that coffee will degas and that
will sort of equalize the pressure which
means that it looks like the vacuum has
failed that isn't the case it's just the
beans degassing you'll find that the
next time you pull a vacuum it may take
three or four days before it equalizes
and after that it never happens again
it's not a faulty product it's just gas
coming out of the beans you've pulled a
vacuum you've removed most of the air so
even though it looks like you've lost
your vacuum what's happened is you've
basically filled that space that was air
with co2 it doesn't mean fresh oxygen
has gotten in the system hasn't failed
it's just been an equalization of
pressures that was a lot of information
let's wrap this up by giving you those
specific recommendations about aging or
resting your coffee based on the way
that you're going to brew it let's start
with filtered coffee filter coffee isn't
as big of a concern honestly brewing
coffee the next day after roasting won't
taste as good as it could but it won't
taste that bad maybe 20 minutes after
roasting not ideal but certainly the
next day it's it's basically drinkable
and enjoyable but it will get better
after three or four days of good storage
with darker roast if you do enjoy those
then i would wait less time i'd wait
maybe two days but but for light roasts
medium roasts
four or five days is a good starting
point but but i wouldn't worry too much
about trying to rest it to a point of
perfection if you're blooming the coffee
and you're brewing well i don't think
you're going to have a big issue and if
you want to drink it you can drink it
with very light roast very dense coffees
yes you might benefit stretching that
out to maybe 10 days in some cases even
longer the taste of coffee that still
has a lot of co2 in it can be
almost like forgotten sparkling water
where you have a kind of carbonic acid
tang to it there's an unpleasant sort of
sourness it'll be under extracted uh and
it generally will taste a bit sour
overall
occasionally if it's super fresh you
might taste a little bit of almost smoke
but that's really pretty rare especially
with lighter roasts espresso is a much
bigger deal espresso is much more
frustrating and that co2 level in the
grounds has a much bigger impact with
light roasts i would probably be resting
the coffee around 10 days i think that's
a good amount of time to make sure it's
good for brewing you're certainly not
going to start to generate negative
tastes know that there was never that
much co2 to begin with so when you start
to pull shots from very light roasts
your crema might look a little thin
it was always that way
light roasts will never produce a very
thick crema once you get into a kind of
medium roast again
eight to ten days i think is a very good
starting point uh just to let that co2
degas there is just a bit more of it
even if it is easier for it to leave the
bean and then with darker roasts
really a couple of days is probably fine
you know what i mean if you leave it
much longer with dark roasts you've got
a lot of oil exposed on the surface
you've got a very porous coffee bean you
should really be concerned mostly about
that coffee going stale rather than an
issue with the co2 outgassing or the
coffee resting properly so so fresher is
really better with darker roasts again a
reminder that your ambient storage makes
a difference if you are freezing it if
you if you're putting it in a cold
environment maybe you store your coffee
in a cellar or a basement or your just
house is a little bit cooler then you do
need to extend your resting times if you
live in a warmer house a warmer climate
shorten your resting times accordingly
pay attention to the roast to the
altitude of the coffee and i think you
should have all the information you need
to rest the coffee and have a really
great result at the end of it but more
than that don't let it stop you enjoying
your coffee resting it is just there to
make it a little easier to brew it isn't
going to transform a coffee from
disgusting to amazing and you're not
going to miss out on something
incredible if it wasn't there in the
first place but now i want to hear from
you do my recommendations line up with
your experiences i know it's hard to say
what is a light roast what is a medium
roast what is a dark roast but
these are the kind of guidelines that
you're working with have you found
resting to be stressful and frustrating
have you had very different results i
would love to hear from you down in the
comments below but for now i'll say
thank you so much for watching and i
hope you have a great day
