## Grinder Review: Wilfa Svart

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aChUZZOp654>

about four months ago I found myself
without a grinder at home up until that
point I've been using various Bharath to
grinders but I found myself with nothing
and I decided I should go shopping and
try something out now I decided that I
did not want to go commercial I wanted
to keep a domestic tilt grinder at home
because selling coffee to people who
brewed at home I want to know what it's
like to brew the coffee that we're
honest and to brew at home every day
with domestic equipment so I'd look
around and I picked this grinder and
I've been using it now for about four
months and I figured that's long enough
to have used every single day to give
you an honest review and an opinion
about it
now I bought this grinder and I paid for
it with my own money I wasn't given to
me it didn't get any special discounts
however I should add that since I've had
it I have received some will for
products for free it's up to you if you
think my review is biased as a result
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
walk you through how the grinder works
and what I like and what I don't like
about the grinder the way the grinder
works is really pretty simple bean
hopper on the top boya beans in and the
hopper itself is your grind adjustment
so twist rotate the hopper it clicks to
give you different grind settings from
coarse to fine and there are suggestions
on the side like french-press filter
coffee or arrow press they're pretty
accurate now this thing that I do like
is on the side here there's a timer
separate from the start/stop button now
in some grinders like the lower-end
brats or grinders you have a twist timer
on/off all-in-one type thing I don't
love that what I do like here is you
save your time and then it's one
separate button to start and stop what
this means is you could fill your hop up
with genes and then use the timer
mechanism as a way to DOS copy out in
the morning but I would not recommend
that for me I always want to keep my
coffee stored sealed properly when I'm
using it and secondly I want to be able
to chop and change different coffees and
if I have a hopper full of coffee
that's not very convenient so from a
quality and kind of convenience for me
factor I would never choose to use the
grinder that way but if you only ever
brew one type of coffee and you want
easiest life possible then I guess you
could just use this to grind work out
what say 30 grams of coffee is in terms
of 20 seconds or twenty five seconds of
grinding and you're done
begin grinding and it grinds into the
little grounds collection tray here now
this thing if I'm honest is one of the
weak points of the grinder the shape is
kind of weird and there is surly an
issue with static now static happens
with every domestic coffee when you
grind the coffee there's Colorado static
in the collection bin I've never seen
that be any different with any grinder
but it's certainly noticeable here and I
also find this thing a little bit
difficult to pour the ground coffee out
of just cuz of its shape I'm not really
sure how we're supposed to pour it you
to think this little bit here the little
lip at the bottom but I don't love that
so for me the design of this is kind of
one of the weak points of the grinder
now this thing was 105 pounds and that
for me is way way cheaper than any
comparable grinder in terms of grind
quality and build quality so I think
this thing is fantastic value for money
it doesn't feel cheap
it feels pretty well built it grinds
pretty well
it is when it comes to build probably a
little bit louder than some of the
browsers up to you if noises a problem
for you in the mornings or if you ever
have to hold a tea towel over the top of
the grinder to try and be a little bit
quieter while someone is sleeping not a
huge problem but for me definitely
noticeably louder than other grinders of
the same kind of price point final point
to make and that's a big negative for
some people but really not for me this
thing does not grind for espresso it
doesn't ride fine enough and it doesn't
have the level of control necessary to
be a good domestic espresso grinder now
for me that's never going to be a
problem because I don't really want to
make espresso at home totally a
preference thing but for me espresso is
kind of a hobby and not one that I want
to bring home I do enough coffee for a
living
I'd like some other hobbies outside of
work so for me filter coffee at home is
what I want to brew every day I've been
using this thing with a mocha master
with a technical for quite a long time
and then more recently with the Wilfred
brewer that I was given and I've been
having pretty great results in terms of
grind quality it's not going to match a
commercial grinder you know it's not
going to match a Nikkei 43 or anything
of that ilk even close however even
though I have experimented with sifting
removing some fines removing some
boulders by and large I'm certainly
pretty happy with the brews that I'm
getting at home so for me growing
quality wise it's not exceptional but
for 105 pounds my expectations were
surpassed in summary this thing is a
great little grinder it is great value
for money super easy to use the grind
guidance is pretty good and I have
really really enjoyed using it let me
know down below if you want to see more
reviews here let me know what you liked
what you don't like about this review
I'm interested in your feedback really
appreciate any insights you have for me
I get to play with a lot of different
equipment and
it's kind of fun to get to share it with
people and share my experiences with you
can subscribe over there too just like
that just push the subscribe button if
you want to I mean you don't either
adapt it but it would be nice
