## Dialling In Espresso - Episode 3

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aQOKa61YBYc>

hi welcome to another video and today
we're darling and spasso again but we're
doing it in square mile and the sound is
not good here yet it will be eventually
so I'm gonna do most of this in the
voice-over got the things to talk about
as I get started will be the coffee
reason today and the kind of moral
dilemma don't have with that and this
video is also sponsored by Skillshare
I'll tell you about that later as well
so let's talk about what we're using
today now this is all chosen by my
patreon supporters by the top tier on
patreon and they have picked the decent
espresso machine this is the de oneplus
as well as the set a 270 WI from Bharat
sir and also as coffee
they picked red brick per square mile
which is a bit awkward for me because
the point of this is not to promote my
own stuff so there'll be no link to the
coffee in the description but a win as a
winner so thanks for picking let's get
on with it
now I'll go a little bit deeper into
some of the features of the decent as we
go we're going to be using a pretty
simple profile on there it's the default
profile so it's a nice pre-infusion up
to nine bars and a slow ramp back down
to six and what you'll see during the
shot is you'll see the pressure on
screen in green and you'll see the flow
in blue now to start us off I'm just
going to put 18 grams in the basket and
see what kind of a flurry we've got
going on and this shot is way way too
quick there's probably no point tasting
this at Bruton like 23 seconds it's just
too fast we're going to have to go find
out on the grinder to get anywhere I
think
so brewing a little bit finer we've got
a nice slow a shot that's probably worth
tasting now and to taste it was okay it
was reasonably extracted but we still
had some unpleasant acidity a little bit
of astringency a little bit of
hollowness at this point I think the
sensible next step is again one more
tweak finer and let's pull another shot
so brewing again if we watch the chart
we're gonna see something I think a
little bit interesting we're gonna see
that even as the pressure declines we
see a kind of sudden uptick in flow rate
that means that it's easier for the
water to pass through the park and
chances are that means that the bed prep
the preparation of that puck before we
brewed well that wasn't good enough so
we've had some channeling we've had some
issues here so even though the brew time
is okay the taste of the shot is is not
bad but it's not great we need to
improve our our prep and this is a kind
of unique insight to the decent you
don't see this with many espresso
machines you can't really see unless
you're using safe third-party software
how your flow is changing in the shot
but if you can see then it's a pretty
good idea to use that information now
this grinder is brand new which isn't
really on its side and also I don't love
the way that it doses into the
portafilter you get a little volcano in
the middle of it that you have to sort
of rearrange to improve what I'm going
to do is change the setup of the grinder
so it doesn't grind into the portafilter
and instead grinds into its little
grounds collection bin that it comes
with this will give me a chance to sort
of homogenized the grounds redistribute
them as I dosed them back in with the
little funnel and hopefully improve my
bed prep that should mean that for the
next shot
we should have a much better tasting
espresso and we shouldn't see that same
kind of rapid rise in flow towards the
end of the shot so that shot it hits the
numbers we have our brew ratios right we
have a no explosive increase in flow it
looks good but it doesn't taste right
and this is where I realized that made a
small mistake I wasn't paying attention
to my brew temperatures now this video
is sponsored by Skillshare Skillshare is
an online learning community and it
offers thousands of inspiring classes
for curious people like you and me I've
been using Skillshare for quite a while
now
it's been really helpful for me to
develop my skill set around making
videos but that's not the only thing I
get out of it right now I'm really
enjoying Timmy Coco's class
it's all about creating digital images
and for me I use Photoshop a lot but I
really want to deepen my creative skills
there and this class has been fantastic
alongside that I'm doing this
bean-to-bar chakra class if you don't
know much about chocolate be do you know
a little bit about coffee I think your
mind will be blown in terms of the
similarities as well as the differences
between the two now one of the great
things about Skillshare is that it's
incredibly affordable it's less than ten
dollars a month and that gives you
unlimited access to every single class
there and if you're interested then
click on the link in the description
down below that will take it a skill
share and if you sign up using this link
you'll have two months free of premium
membership I want you to think about
what kind of skills you could learn in
the next 60 days thanks so much to
Skillshare for sponsoring this video we
were set down 88 so I went into the
settings very quickly jumped up the
temperature to 93 and I kept everything
the same and brewed another shot and it
did brew a little bit quicker actually
so in that situation I didn't want to
start chasing my grind around all I
thought I should do is just increase my
dose a little bit so I took the dose
from eighteen to eighteen and a half and
brewed that next shot and this was a
nice way for me not to chase the growing
around too much to make a small
adjustment I was by no means at the
upper end of dose so I did have that
flexibility to make one simple change
and so that half gram just increased the
resistance a little bit slowed the shot
down just a little bit and lo and behold
we hit the numbers on the next espresso
and that hotter brew temperature was
transformative now I'm not saying that a
small change at brew temperatures is a
sensible tweak most of the time but this
was not a small tweak I was going from
88 up to 93 that is a big jump and the
effect was transformative
this final espresso was very sweet very
balanced
it was really well extracted it had a
lovely intensity and texture and it was
what I would want from an espresso blend
it was just very enjoyable to drink it
had a great finish I wouldn't have
bothered to tweaking or changing
anything from there and in fact I made a
few to share with people around the
office so I hope this was helpful I hope
this was useful to you I hope you
learned one or two
again some of this is pretty specific to
the decent but that's kind of part and
parcel of these darling in videos we're
going to use all the lots of different
equipment picked by my patreon
supporters and who knows what will be
brewing with next I'm going to say thank
you so much for watching and I hope you
have a great day
