## Weber Workshops Key Grinder Review

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bQ-ta6s931c&t=133s>

today we're going to look at this it's
the key grinder from weber workshops
it's their latest grinder and it has
been the subject of a lot of discussion
and debate we're going to break the
review down into a few different
sections to start with i'll talk through
the history and inception of this
grinder and ultimately its launch then
we'll discuss the grinder itself the
features what it comes with what you get
for your money then we'll dive into some
of the claims of the grinder we did some
objective testing to kind of marry up
with my subjective opinions of whether
these things that they talk about these
innovations well whether they work we're
going to talk about workflow the start
to end process of pulling a shot of
espresso or making filter coffee after
that we will do a brief comparison to
the niche zero and then i'll wrap it all
up in a summary give you my final
thoughts tell you who i think this
grinder is really for and for whom it
may not work out let's start at the
beginning the grinder originally
launched on indiegogo and received a
little bit over two and a half thousand
backers paying sixteen hundred and fifty
dollars at the kind of base price and
that was a discount against the now
retail price of two thousand dollars
now weber don't make cheap coffee
grinders we've discussed a couple of
their grinders in the past on the
channel the eg1 which i liked so much
that i ended up buying one for me and
the hg one which is a hand grinder this
is almost the electrified version of
that hand grinder a lot of the same
features the same burst set inside but a
very different workflow and experience
that we'll get into let's walk through
the grinder just quickly now and then we
can understand the kind of key features
and ideas behind it now at the heart of
this grinder in the middle here are a
set of 83 millimeter conical burs
sourced from manza those are a big burst
and weber say they are partially
seasoned essentially brand new burs
don't cut efficiently or effectively
compared to birds that have been used
for a little bit and so that process of
grinding a bunch of coffee that will be
substandard or below optimal is called
seasoning they may be partially seasoned
but i've definitely seen an improvement
in coffee quality over time this has had
a good amount of coffee through it now
and is making i think very good drinks
but we'll come to that so you have these
conical burst sets they sit actually
below the sort of dosing funnel now this
is sort of trapped in place here but
below it you can see the burst end here
and they've got a coating on them too
that should improve their longevity
though in almost every case most
domestic users won't go anywhere near
the lifespan of a well-made burst set
they're really built for cafes first and
foremost that'll be grinding hundreds if
not thousands of kilos of coffee in a
year now if i turn it sideways here you
control the motors rpm with this dial
here it runs from 30 rpm up to 150 rpm
that's a pretty low rpm range and a very
interesting decision that i think has
had some benefits
and some drawbacks
there's a whole section on this though
don't you worry next to it is a nice
design detail there's a little brush
that sits there for keeping things clean
that slides back in to make it easy to
put back in and the on off button
here is what's called the magic tumbler
it's a couple of different pieces all
put together it's magnetically attached
to the body and it drops down and here
you have uh the sort of weber
dosing funnel this has a central piece
that when full of coffee you pull it up
coffee falls out of the bottom and it's
pretty easy to dose directly into your
portafilter or into your filter brew or
whatever you're using the additional
magic piece to this tumbler is this
small paperclip looking thing just here
on the grinder as the grinder runs
it spins and stirs and declumps the
grounds as they're grinding
does it work
we'll find out the last thing to talk
about
is the grind adjustment mechanism this
ground adjustment is stepped and for
some people that's a kind of deal
breaker they want infinite adjustment
they want real granularity
the adjustments are apparently about
five microns in size in my experience
i've had no issues getting the grind to
be what i want it to be to get the flow
that i want to get the extraction that i
want i have found this to be adequate
control and i've never found myself
moving between steps trying to chase a
gap in between them to adjust the
grinder you lift this collar here
but not all the way up
and then you move it either coarser or
finer
this adjustment mechanism is a little
bit clunky if i'm honest i don't really
like the fact that you can lift it off
this piece here and then you've got to
try and awkwardly put it back on i don't
like the fact that if you were to not
lock the mechanism back properly and run
the grinder with a little bit of coffee
in it
the direction the bur turns would
essentially drag the adjustment
mechanism finer and finer and finer to
the point that you would likely seize
the burs together
for me that's quite a flaw in this
particular product design it may never
happen to most people but to the one
person that it does happen to they're in
for a fairly miserable time as they try
and unseize those birds that's not going
to be an easy thing to do you do get a
dosing cup with your grinder this isn't
great either this feels significantly
cheaper than everything else and i will
say the build here on my unit has been
excellent i have no flaws or issues you
might see a couple of scuffs and
scratches on the grinder because of a
small accident in the studio that was my
fault that's not an issue with weber
that's an issue with me
the dosing cup it's a little bit too
thin it's annoying to dose into it feels
cheap it can sit after dosing just there
you also get with your grinder a little
spray bottle if you're not familiar with
the rdt or there's a whole video i made
on that whole thing here spray bottles
are good and definitely recommended with
this particular grinder giving your
beans a little misting of water before
you grind them now my grinder came with
the full set which means that i got an
additional funnel and an additional
tumbler if you don't want to use the
magic tumbler then you can take this
piece off you can remove the kind of
paper clip holder and replace it with
this piece here and then insert a funnel
that would sit just underneath here and
then this catch cup sits magnetically on
the base there i will say that the
experience of using this thing having
the magnet hold it in place is
satisfying in the way that i wanted the
fellow odes to be but it really wasn't
this very satisfying magnet there and
that's
what you get
for your two thousand dollars well a
little bit more actually if you pay for
the additional tumbler sets i'll go
ahead and say right now i wouldn't
necessarily recommend the additional
sets unless you have a very specific
need for them uh i i definitely
preferred the magic tumbler now before
we move on we have to just touch briefly
on the design decision that i think is
the most controversial in this whole
grinder and that's to mount the moving
bar at the end of a long drive shaft
that is not stabilized near the burr in
theory if this shaft moved out of
alignment it would it would take very
little to have a significant impact on
sort of the bur alignment between the
outer bur and the inner burr
weber say that this is not an issue some
people have reported that they've had
alignment issues
i'll leave some other reviews and other
links down below while i have had no
issues with alignment i've had no issues
with extraction or flavor it is a cause
for concern in the very long term or
just something i would be aware of it's
an interesting decision it's an
aesthetic decision it leaves you with
this piece that you can't take off that
annoys me
it's a risk
is it worth it
that's a difficult question to answer so
let's talk about testing those claims of
the various different innovations within
the grinder firstly let's talk about
retention this is sold as a sort of low
or zero retention grinder and i would
say on one particular condition that's
actually pretty true as long as you're
using an rdt spray a little bit of water
to mist the beans before you grind them
i found it to be a very very low
retention grinder by and large i've
gotten out exactly what i've put in
once in a blue moon there's been a small
amount of variance but it has been very
very very low but i will say i don't
weigh the output when i'm using it
because i'm confident that if i put 18
or 20 grams of coffee in that's what i
get out so from that perspective it has
worked extremely well across probably 50
different tests where we measured in and
out so let's talk about one of the big
features of this grinder which is the
magic tumbler does that little paperclip
mechanism a little wire for a kind of
kind of phrase does that work does that
de-clump the grounds does that improve
your espresso to sort of understand it
or to test this we created a little
matrix of shots so we devised four tests
number one standard tumbler no needle
distribution number two standard tumbler
with needle distribution number three
magic tumbler no needle distribution and
number four magic tumbler with an
additional needle distribution broadly
speaking the magic tumbler works it is
definitely better than no distribution
and it's
nearly on par with no distribution from
a grinder and then using a manual tool
when i particularly compared the magic
tumbler versus the magic tumbler with an
additional distribution i saw a small
improvement with additional distribution
that's both in
sort of overall extraction that very
slightly increased
very slightly and a small reduction in
variance essentially it became a little
bit more consistent
so if you want the absolute best out of
this grinder i would recommend adding a
sort of stirred stage to the end because
ultimately this does a very good job of
declumping and fluffing the grounds and
that's good that's one part of what
you're trying to do here the second part
is really make sure that you've
distributed the ground coffee in the
portafilter basket as evenly as possible

what we have here is very fluffy grounds
in the kind of dosing funnel ready to go
i think they look nicely de-clumped
that's good i can give them a little
shake if i want to before i put it on
top of my porta filter
and lift the central column up
and then to just sort of make sure
everything is in place you can do a
little movement like that you'll see
weber themselves recommend a technique
like this the distribution in the basket
is pretty good
but the truth is a needle distributor
will help you improve that fractionally
and i think that's where i was seeing
the increased consistency and the
increased extraction just doing a very
slightly better job of evening out that
bed of coffee before i tapped it and
brewed it while there is room for
improvement i think it's taking you
quite a long way there i think it's
doing a good job if not a flawless job
and for many people who don't want to
have one more tool or go through that
entire process it's it's taking you a
long way towards good puck prep in an
automated way that works reasonably well
next up is the variable rpm as i said at
the start the rpm choices here are
really pretty low 30 rpm is a really
really slow moving burst set
and that has presented some challenges
ultimately with lighter roasted coffee
beans that are much more dense grinding
at very fine grind settings that's a lot
of work and it's even more work when
you're trying to do it very slowly you
need a lot of torque
i have suffered and i think a number of
other testers have suffered similarly
trying to grind very very very finely
espresso finely with very light roasted
coffees has caused the motor to stall
this
is an irritating experience i'm not
gonna lie you have to try and find a way
to overcome that in some cases you can
crank the rpm back up higher in other
cases you might need to adjust the
grinder coarser to to make the whole
thing easier and then to grind out the
dose that you've kind of halfway gotten
through
the interesting thing to note from my
testing was that when stalling happened
it tended to happen after a number of
shots pulled back to back and often it
seemed to be the kind of workload more
than the grind setting
a number of times not long after we'd
moved the ground setting a little bit
coarser that's when the grinder had
stalled
it seems kind of weird that should be
easier than it was at a finer setting
and yet i was having issues so i presume
an issue was essentially a buildup of
heat around the motor causing it to have
the safety mechanism that kicks in that
stops it being damaged by by trying to
work too hard or harder than it's rated
to work to give you an idea of the
coffee that we used this is a single
origin coffee from rwanda it's pretty
dense pretty high grown really pretty
light for espresso but it did cause the
grinder some issues at higher rpms
really above 90 and it goes up to 150.
in that upper half i've never had issues
of stalling
any coffee that i've used for any
particular grind setting it's really
just that low rpm stuff so what you
might ask
is the benefit of low rpm
that's a very good question and so what
i did is i dialed in a coffee at 90 rpm
and then i started to pull shots at
varying rpms to see what the impact on
brew time and cup quality was the
results were surprising because you'll
hear a lot of people talk about the
barista hustle research that said lower
rpm produces less fines and so what you
might expect would be a lower rpm at the
same grind setting to produce a faster
shot it's got less fines it should flow
faster
but the opposite occurs same again when
you crank up the rpm i found my shots
across different coffees flowed faster
that seems contrary to bristol's work
but in terms of taste well that lined up
a little bit more generally speaking
shots at higher rpms have the taste of
more texture more body less clarity
they're a little softer more muted than
the kind of clearer more linear shots
that you would get out of very low rpms
so from a taste perspective it does line
up but something else beyond fines
production is happening at different rpm
uh it seems like their overall peak is
being moved
i don't have a laser analyzer for coffee
grounds and if i did this would be a
fascinating grinder to test with that
maybe at some point in the future we can
make that happen but for now i remain a
little bit confused by the outcome it's
an interesting feature i'm not a hundred
percent sold in the execution here i
think variable rpm is going to be a
thing that we see more and more of in
the future as we begin to understand the
actual impact but at this stage this is
a decent implementation but not perfect
by any stretch and i would hope this is
something that has changed and improved
in future models let's talk workflow
let's talk the use of this thing daily
is it a delight or is it a frustration
and if i'm honest it's a little bit of
both
let's make some coffee and i'll talk you
through my particular issues with how
this grinder works firstly i think this
lid
doesn't really work well it helps stop a
little bit of popcorning that happens uh
popcorning where fragments of beans
bounce out of the burrs this does help
prevent that but it also creates a very
annoying problem you can't see the
little dosing funnel to see that all of
the beans have essentially fallen in
when you spray coffee beans they get a
little bit sticky that means they won't
necessarily fall in from the funnel
properly them i need a little assistance
with your finger to poke them down if
your lid is on you can't see which ones
are still stuck without taking the lid
off which sort of negates the whole lid
so for almost the entire duration of me
using this grinder i have not used the
lid and i have not used this dosing cup
because i just don't i don't like
weighing coffee into it i don't like
using it it just doesn't work for me so
having sprayed the coffee i've preferred
to give the grinder a kind of hot start
where the grinder burs are running
before i load the coffee in this is
perhaps a fear of stalling that's just
built this particular workflow for me
but it has obviously created less issues
so generally i would recommend it
i think ultimately a lot of my beef with
the workflow stems from this one piece
of the grinder here now this is trapped
in place i can't take this off at any
point it would have been a much more
weather piece of design to split this in
half put some magnets in it and let me
click it apart and click it together
again so that i could take it off if i
wanted to this whole grinder as you can
tell is built with a very small
footprint it's very narrow in that
regard but i feel like you could have
used a little bit more width to take
advantage of an angle to better feed
coffee beans in so i feel like
frustratingly you could come up with a
third-party solution with this piece but
putting it on is nigh on impossible
because of the design of the grinder
from this point onwards the workflow is
pretty decent like i said i've gotten on
pretty well with the magic tumbler it's
not flawless but it works pretty well
but
let's make some espresso
it's very tasty the key thing that
everyone wants to know is how is the
kind of coffee out of this
as i said i've had no real issues
getting the extractions that i would
want or expect from this i have
rarely gone all the way to max rpm i've
preferred to sort of live in the middle
and try and live a hybrid life of a
little bit of clarity a little bit of
texture it's capable of making great
espresso of different styles now as i
put this back together you'll be aware
that i have to pay attention to my
little paperclip thing
that is again a bit of a ding on the
workflow with the hg1 the hand grinder
that had the same sort of system that
piece was going to be in one of two
positions and that made life a little
bit easier here it could be anywhere on
this with 360 rotation which means a
part of your brain has to pay a bit of
attention have a bit of a look when
you're putting it back together again
it's not
a joyful fluid experience it's not the
worst thing in the world but
it's notable
it's something you find yourself paying
attention to and wishing a little bit
that you didn't have to now i said this
whole grinder review was not going to be
a direct comparison with the niche but i
think it would be helpful and
instructive for me to pull the same
recipe with the same coffee on the same
equipment with the niche and give a kind
of benchmark of how those flavors and
textures are different

it's a surprisingly different shot from
the niche it's a heavier shot it's a
little bit more texture
it lacks a little bit of clarity in
comparison it lacks a little bit of
brightness and sort of top end to it
you've got a nice at home when you're
pulling shots you're probably having a
great time if you're doing a good job
this is tasty this is a different style
of espresso even at the highest rpms
where it's the sort of most kind of
conical expression in a way i think it's
a different style of espresso very
slightly the niche is going to be
a i think probably a broader particle
size and you taste that and for better
or worse you get a bit more texture you
get a little less clarity and that's
okay that's sometimes a worthwhile
trade-off that doesn't say the texture
from this hasn't been good i've had very
nice feeling espresso from this when
it's really been sort of dialed in and
singing
but it's a different sort of beast to
the niche and so i'm sort of hesitant to
kind of come back and compare over and
over these two grinders so let's touch
on filter coffee because while i see
this as an espresso forwards grinder a
lot of people would want it for filtered
coffee in my experience i was moving the
the dial about a full rotation to go
from espresso to filter coffee but bear
in mind that we brew 30 to 40 grams at a
time here rather than a single cup so
your mileage may vary
that process
is a little bit awkward you know like
lifting this
if i move it from nine
all the way around
seven about where i last was
it's fine it's repeatable i can move
back to where i was without much in the
way of issues though i would recommend a
little purge of coffee through first
just to make sure that your coffee
brews as you would want it to once you
start dialing it properly
but that's not a difficult thing the
settings have been repeatable settings
haven't moved so to speak between day to
day kind of bruise generally i've been
sort of grinding at these lower rpms
because in filter coffee i prize clarity
above texture and i'm willing to sort of
make that particular sacrifice and i
think those characteristics do reflect
in the filter coffee a little bit the
way that they do in espresso though i
don't think it's as obvious to most
people i know we were just talking about
the niche and so in comparison to the
two i think it makes better filter
coffee than the niche i think if you
like clarity more than you like texture
in your filter coffee here i i think i
do ultimately prefer that clarity that
sweetness from this particular grinder
when everything is dialed in just right
so let's summarize my feelings about the
weber workshop's key grinder reviewing
this grinder gave me a small
philosophical crisis as many of you know
the reviews in this channel are
supported by patreon they give me a
budget every month to go and buy these
things like a normal person i don't take
review units i just buy them and give
you an a kind of unbiased review ideally
at the end i give it away in a contest
to one of my patreons that's done on
patreon if you ever see anyone in the
comments looking like me telling you
you've won something you haven't it's a
scam ignore it anyway this is a 2 000
grinder and that is a staggering amount
of money now i paid 1650
still that's a lot of money too that's a
lot of money but because it wasn't my
money initially i had a kind of
detachment from the price
and thinking about it made me pay a lot
more attention to the price what if this
was my money my hard-earned cash coming
out of my pocket how would this change
my relationship with this product with
this whole experience targeting the
niche i think was a good idea the niche
demonstrated a huge demand for a certain
style and experience in the world of
grinding and i think by looking at it on
paper and taking each of the features
and improving upon them they've missed
the wider experience of the niche going
back to my original review of the niche
i think the word i used was charming
something about the workflow the use of
the whole thing
was pleasing to me in a way that i think
caught me off guard in addition what
surprised me about the niche was the
industrialization process that they had
succeeded in most people struggled to
scale up going from a prototype to mass
manufacture turns out the founder of
niche that's what his whole career had
been doing for other people and so not
surprising he could do it for himself
but going from small run to big scale is
really really really hard and i think
that has been
a challenge for weber part of their
appeal had been they made small runs a
very beautiful very exquisitely built
grinders this was their first foray into
industrialized scale into not mass
production but certainly i would say an
order of magnitude more units than
they've done previously
that transition is painful for anybody
and i think niche just got to learn that
on someone else's dime so to speak my
grinder has not had many issues but i
have seen other issues from other people
and i just think that is unfortunately
part of that growth process there's no
shortcut you just have to go through
that as a manufacturer nobody starts out
being good at hardware scale is painful
the combination of brand and price point
set an expectation of small scale build
of perfection in every single detail and
i think that's really hard to achieve
when you're going through the kind of
growth and scale that they are going
through i think this is a grinder where
you have to decide what really really
matters to you if footprint is
incredibly important to you this is
desirable if design and look and feel
and materials are important to you this
does feel beautifully made the details
definitely feel there on this unit i
have no reason to complain about a
single piece of sort of manufacturer or
build if you want a grinder that can do
a few different things in terms of
styles from a little bit more texture to
a little bit more clarity without being
the extreme of either
then i think it's appealing if you've
got two thousand dollars to spend then i
suspect you're probably also looking at
something like the the lagom p64 and
that's a worthy competitor it's a little
bit cheaper you've got some more options
you have variable rpm you don't have
some of the extra features but it is
still a very very nice grinder that i
like a lot and you have to decide what's
more important to you what is it that
you want from your espresso making
experience i could see some people being
very very happy with their purchase i
could see others being frustrated and
kind of annoyed and what i've tried to
do with this review is give you my
subjective opinion the things that i
like the things that i don't as well as
the objective what works and how well it
works and with that information i hope
you can make an informed decision about
whether this is the right grinder for
you is it worth the money
i can't really answer that because i
don't know what you need from your
espresso grinder if you look at the
features look at the performance and see
that marry up with what you need then i
think it's a great investment if they
don't match up then no it's not good
value for money that's the nature of any
product out there i think it's a very
capable very good grinder i still think
there's a couple of areas i'd like to
see improvements in the future but
nothing comes out of the gate perfect
and i think if you're backing something
as a pre-order from the very first run
you should always be aware regardless of
manufacturer regardless of what you're
buying that you are
essentially a little bit of a guinea pig
you're getting the first of something
and there is a little bit of a risk with
that even from an established
manufacturer and that's not just weber
that's anyone anywhere even at the
biggest scale possible of hardware
manufacturing but now i want to hear
from you down in the comments below do
you have a key yet did you pre-order has
it arrived how are you getting on with
it how's the espresso tasting how's the
filter coffee what's working for you
what do you wish were a little bit
different
if you're shopping for a grinder how
does this figure into what you're
looking for right now i'd love to hear
from you down in the comments below but
for now i'll say thank you so much for
watching and i hope you have a great day
