## First Look: Decent DE1+ Espresso Machine

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nUb5O7lQKbE>

welcome to the first of what might be
several videos about a brand new
espresso machine that I am very excited
about now this is not going to be an
in-depth review this is going to be a
first look at the new decent espresso
machine the de 1 plus packed full of
features and something I'm very very
excited about

quick disclaimer while I know the
founder of decent while we've
corresponded over the last few months I
paid for this machine because I want to
support someone doing something very
cool and I think this machine is doing
something very cool I'm going to talk
about it mostly from a home barista
perspective it is by no means
particularly cheap though for the
feature set you get I'm not sure there's
anything quite at the same price point
well what's interesting about this
machine well first and foremost it is
run from an Android tablet that you have
on top of the machine and this is
exciting because for me the phrase
software is eating the world is very
true you know what you can do with
software enables more and more and more
from hardware if you can create a
software update you can unlock new
features you can take feedback from your
community and you can improve the
hardware through updating the software
so that's one aspect of this I'm very
excited about secondly that tablet
provides a totally unique graphical
display of what's actually happening
during your espresso shot that to me is
kind of mind-bending and the thing that
I'm pretty excited about and really
really want to get into now this machine
is capable of pressure profiling but
that's not necessarily the super
interesting part of that what this
machine also does is it measures flow
now flow is a function of pressure and
resistance you can have a load of
pressure but if you've got a lot of
resistance in that coffee cake if your
coffee cake is very fine very hard sort
of tightly packed together your flow
will be very slow and in fact lower
pressures may produce a higher flow
because they won't compact the cake as
much here for the first time we have
during the shot a graphical
representation of flow so you can start
to see what's happening when you change
pressure you can see what happens if you
use a different grinder how does the
flow change during the shot you could
see something like a channel form in
that flow dator here's where it gets
more exciting we've worked out I think
increasingly that the thing you should
be controlling in espresso is not
necessarily the input variable
but the output variables in the past we
heard volumetrics to control the size of
an espresso shot and a volumetric
controls the amount of water sent
towards the puck into the group an input
but that doesn't correlate exactly with
how much water ends up going through the
coffee and into the cup more recently
we've been doing stuff like measuring
the weight of the liquid espresso and
controlling that which is kind of an
output variable now pressure has long
been an input variable and manipulating
the pressure has has had an effect
unquestionably though I would argue I'm
not sure I've had notably better
espresso from manipulating pressure
what's really interesting here is that
this machine will allow you to control
flow it will make the necessary pressure
adjustments to have the flow that you
want happen during your espresso shot
this is controlling an output and this
is totally new in theory if a channel
opened up in your espresso and the flow
increased because there was less
resistance the pump here would reduce
the pressure potentially allowing
channel to closed before bringing that
pressure back up because for a second
your flow got too high so it pulled back
on the pressure this sort of stuff we
don't really know too much yet there's a
few people around the world
experimenting with this playing with
this but right now this is why this is
just a quick first look as for the
machine itself it's not huge it's
actually a pretty small machine and it's
also pretty light one nice little detail
on here is the second handle allowing
you to hold the machine while you lock
in the portafilter without necessarily
dragging your machine across the counter
that's a nice little detail to me it
plugs in you have a water tank
underneath the machine there will be a
plumbed version in the future this one
is just tanked however it doesn't matter
to me I'm pretty happy with it
especially because I can move it around
oh and on that front this thing comes in
a flight case that's just obscene that's
amazing this comes in a custom-made foam
cutout suitcase you can just drag around
the place that that from the moment you
get this is pretty exciting and I've
already used mine to drag it around
London between different spaces
this machine is steam capable also it's
perfectly capable of stealing milk
drinks though I think it's probably
the investment of someone who
desperately loves espresso chances are
though if you're having this at home
someone in the household may also want
good milk drinks and this is more than
capable like I said I will be doing a
deep deep dive on this thing in the
future when I spent a little bit more
time with it if there's things that you
want me to test if there's things you
want me to look at leave a comment down
below and I will try and build it into
my full test of this thing I'm excited
to dive into a machine in a whole new
way and so this is going to be a really
fun espresso machine for me to get to
know there will be more again soon
thanks for watching I do have a great
day
