## What No One Tells You About Learning To Taste

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tU1y7hBSgiY>

when you learn to taste something really
important that no one really talks about
the process of learning to taste
developing that skill is great because
you can detect define describe kind of
communicate what you're tasting and
beyond that you don't just know that
something is good you can explain why
it's good and because of this the highs
get higher you will enjoy certain foods
or drinks even more than you did before
and maybe even more than those around
you but here's what we don't talk about
while the highs get higher on average
what you eat and what you drink will get
worse and it will get worse because
you'll see all of the floors all of the
mediocrity in a way that you didn't
before this will quickly take you to a
bit of a difficult place where all
you'll want to do is just have good
experiences you'll start dragging
yourself across towns across cities
looking for the better place so you
don't have to compromise and you'll get
there and you'll still kind of tear it
to pieces and while the highs do get
higher very soon you realize they get
further and further apart they're harder
and harder to find and you'll start to
spend more time and more money chasing
those pies
eventually you'll become kind of a
burden on your friends they don't really
want to hang out with you if all you do
is complain no I got myself to this
place and I'll tell you what worked for
me what got me out of it in the case of
coffee I started to drink bad coffee now
I didn't go and seek it out but when it
was gonna happen
I just let it happen it might have been
a plane an airport a hotel a diner I
didn't fight it anymore I just started
to drink the bad coffee so I'll tell you
why this worked for me without a little
ugliness there can be no beauty if
everything you drink is special then
nothing is special I mean I needed that
context I think we all need that context
and yeah we might wake up brew coffee
and think maybe lack some sweetness
maybe lacks a little complexity but in
the great scheme of things in you know
in the broad spectrum it's amazing and
I'm not saying we shouldn't try and make
coffee better I'm not saying we
shouldn't be chasing excellence but it's
okay to stop and just enjoy where we are
sometimes it's okay to just enjoy your
morning coffee do you need to taste
terrible things to enjoy the great
things to be reminded of what makes them
special and so that's that's the deal
that's the contract that you enter into
when you learn to taste
you're gonna develop a skill but it's
gonna mess you up for a little while but
hopefully well maybe this will help you
get out of a bad place I'll be
interested to hear what worked for you
as always thank you so much for watching
and I hope you have a great day

you
