## Product Review: Wilfa Uniform Grinder

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TvmYngoL8RQ>

today we're gonna review this the new
grinder from Wilfer that will thir
uniform now it's important to say right
at the start that Wilfer sent me this
unit for free it's important not just
because you should declare these things
in product reviews but actually we'll
touch on this a little bit later in the
review no I won't lie
when this grinder was announced that got
me pretty excited it's in collaboration
with Tim Wendell Bowe the famous coffee
roaster coffee person I don't know Tim
little Bo it feels a little bit like a
grinder made for me for how I brew
coffee in the mornings up into this
point at home I'd been using the cheaper
will for grinder a grinder I had
recommended because as grinders go it
was surprisingly good considering how
cheap it was this really is a whole
different ballgame now that that first
whirl for grinder was pretty small
conical burr set some pretty easy grind
adjustments a few good features but but
this is a much more ambitious project
and they've moved from conical burrs to
flat burrs and the prices jumped up from
about a hundred pounds to about three
hundred and fifty pounds so expectations
have gone up a lot along with the price
you know this is is in an interesting
price point where actually there's not a
whole load of competition and in many
ways it stands alone in that category
it's pretty hard to buy a flat burr set
filter focused coffee grinder for home
without getting into sort of commercial
equipment and the kind of ridiculous
prices that commercial equipment costs
this had me pretty pumped
and when I say it's made for someone
like me it's made for someone who gets
up in the morning gets a scale out
weighs their beans grind those beans and
then away in bruise them right I don't
have a hopper full of beans I'm
definitely using a scale as part of my
brewing routine however I'm brewing him
definitely wearing my coffee it's kind
of built for me I want a more uniform
grind profile and this is supposed to
offer that and it unquestionably does it
is a significant improvement
wine quality from the first world for
Grindr you know that those flat burrs
typically speaking generalizations here
typically produce a more uniform grind
profile than conical burrs do now there
are lots of moments when that isn't true
but broadly speaking that is true and
the grinds coming out of this are much
much much better in terms of extraction
which is probably one of the few ways we
have to to comfortably talk about how
good a job a grinder is doing brews 21
and a half 22 percent extractions if
that means anything to you
they stay stry good right so it's
certainly not having issues at slightly
higher extractions certainly much better
than the other will for grinder would
taste at those higher extractions so so
the birds are better they're not ek 43
burrs they're not top top top tier burrs
but for the home they're a significant
jump up certainly from wilfer's other
grinder but I haven't been able to do
yet is compare this to some similarly
priced coffee grinders perhaps the
settee from Bharata so that's that's on
the list of things that I do want to
have a look at so let's dive in a little
bit more into the simple features of
this grinder so first off the lid for
the hopper the lid for the hopper is a
set of scales right nice neat little set
of scales pretty simple functionality
you know they do grams and the other
thing no timer function on here because
this does have bluetooth and it does
connect to an app I'll be totally honest
I'm not really interested in that I'm
not really interested in pairing a
device first thing in the morning and
and interacting in a more complex way
I've used this grinder for about a month
at home and mostly to make my first
coffee of the day and at that point I
know what I want to do I'm brewing it
with actually the sage precision brewer
which I'll talk about another time so
I'm bring it with an automatic brewer so
really my routine in the mornings is
pretty simple I don't want to have to
worry about apps connectivity any of
that stuff but it is part and parcel of
this and if you want bring
recommendations from Tim those are
bundled into the app so you have the
scales on top this is designed really to
be a single dose grinder ie it's just
gonna grind what you pour in the top
this isn't
designed to be a storage hopper for your
bins ideally you're keeping them in
something dark dry cool airtight a zip
sealed bag or Tupperware or something
and you're gonna portion out and then
grind as you go the top color here is
your grind adjuster there are 40
different grind settings and it does go
all the way down to espresso you get a
little pamphlet with it that does
recommend some grind settings for
brewing let's say 45 grams to 750 grams
of water slightly three-quarters of a
liter of brewed coffee I'm at about 28
at the moment with my brewing setup
we're not gonna get too deep into what
kind of pre-infusion times we're gonna
Fleur it to have but just to give you an
idea of where this would sit we'll talk
about espresso a bit more towards the
end of the review and then the controls
of the grinder which is a simple on
button and when I heard about this one
of the killer features for me is that
you turn this grinder on and it will
switch itself off when it's finished
grinding I presume it's detecting some
level of resistance in the motor and
then at the bottom you got your grounds
collection bin now in the first world
for grinder at their little plastic bin
that kind of drove me insane in its
design and in this case it's a stainless
steel bin now they say this does help
mitigate static electricity and there's
a little black plastic piece that you
need to have on sits on top of this
while it's grinding and that very simply
is is the grinder you know it's really
designed to be a filter coffee focused
grinder it can do espresso and will pull
some shots of espresso towards the end
of the review but it's really really
focused and built around better filter
coffee at home now I've wanted a filter
coffee focus grinder at home for a long
time and now I have one and this is
definitely going to be a part of my
daily brewing setup in the foreseeable
future like I've had this for about a
month I'm really enjoying using it
though I have to say there are
inevitably a few caveats there are a few
things for me that I didn't completely
love that I do have to talk about so
let's top with the scale in the top now
I like a lot about having an integrated
scale in the grinder I think it's a
really neat clever place to put it I
think it looks good it does however lag
a little bit it's a little bit slow when
you are weighing stuff out for example
coffee
so most mornings I've tended to
overshoot a little bit one or two grams
something of the world and I can and
should adapt to this but it does bother
me just a little bit that the scales are
compared to others reasonably slow now
the feature of the auto off is a killer
feature for me it's one of those things
where why isn't this normal why doesn't
everything have this however on
occasions its detection of finished
grinding hasn't been fantastic and it's
run just a little bit longer than I've
wanted just to the point where my brain
has kind of clicked in and gone do I
need to switch this off myself and about
the time I've kind of gone across to do
that it switched itself off but its
detection can be a little slow
especially if those last few beans kind
of bounce around in there it does detect
that it is grinding though still so in
theory it's it's getting everything
through but it can be a little bit slow
so one of the things we should talk
about is accessing the burs in this
grinder to do that you just take it
course this makes it very easy to access
but one of my great sort of pet hates in
this world in the world of grinders is
having threading in the same rough area
as ground coffee right anyone who has
tried to clean out a mat so grinder and
been tightening the burst back up again
and hit a little bit of ground coffee in
the threads will know that pain I really
really really don't like threading in
and around ground coffee that's like a
personal thing and there are other ways
around this you don't have to have
threading in the burr chamber it's easy
to access it's easy to clean it's a
small neat burr chain but I like all of
those things I just wish that they'd
gone a different route on the threading
moving down to the grounds collection
pin I like the stainless steel I like
that design I like that material quite a
lot it doesn't do that much more for me
for static mitigation I still prefer to
do the little water drop trick add just
the tiniest amount of water to the
coffee beans before you drain them and
then you get a much better result the
lid that sits on top of it is a little
bit fussy to put back on like it's not a
super easy thing to put back on every
time and I do worry about losing it at
some point I wonder if there could be a
different materials choice or a
different fit here just to make that a
slightly more enjoyable experience now
quite intentionally this grinder is
pretty slow Tim talked about this that
they wanted to have a slower motor to
prevent less heat transfer to the coffee
beans now there has been research into
temperature and coffee beans but really
the best evidence is that incredibly
cold coffee does grind better but beyond
that I'm not sure that there's a ton of
evidence that going that bit slower
really does produce significantly better
or noticeably better coffee like I get
the idea behind it I get I get the
hypothesis but I just don't think we
actually have any evidence and I would
like this to have been just a little bit
quicker in the mornings
[Applause]
you
[Applause]
and so in summary the good I really like
this grinder
I like the grounds it produces I think
they're very good for the money I think
to get better than this you're spending
significantly more money even though
this will be quite an expensive grinder
I like the design I like the footprint
and I like the build there are however a
couple of things that annoy me slightly
and the scale lag or the auto-detect lag
I find it hard to really decide how I
feel about those because they didn't pay
for this grinder I received this unit to
review I would have happily paid for
what I having either offered to pay for
one but they're sent one to me I'm gonna
keep it and really use it every day but
without having spent the money I don't
really know how much those things bother
me like if I'd paid the money would they
really bother me or would it bother me
less in fact there are a couple of
things that that are imperfect but I
don't think that would stop me
recommending this as a good grinder and
so before I finally finally finally wrap
up I did say I would pull some shots now
what I don't have here in the studio
right now is an espresso machine so for
the very very last piece of this review
I'm gonna go to where I can get an
espresso machine down to some friends at
VA machinery and I'm gonna pull some
shots on a black eagle with this thing
to see how we go and I'll conclude the
last bits of the review over there

so I brought the grinder down here so I
can pull a few shots see how I felt
about the performance of it as an
espresso grinder now it's not designed
to be an espresso grinder it's designed
to be a filter grinder that can do
espresso and it can it can do espresso
so what I was doing was askew from my
dose in my dose out to the same and just
seeing how the grind settings affected
time so first thing I did died and down
to number four in the settings and it
choked the machine started back to
number six it pulled an 18 second shot
Darla into number five and we got pretty
close there but the steps are big now if
this is an occasional espresso grinder
well I can kind of work with that if
that 30-second shot was a little bit too
slow for me I could drop my dose by half
a gram drop my output liquid by a gram
keep my ratio at the same and that shot
would flow just a little bit quicker and
maybe get me into the window of time
that I wanted as an occasional espresso
grinder it works pretty well however a
couple of things one dosing from that
chamber from the little grounds chamber
is not particularly easy or neat and I
would probably want to rinse that out
really thoroughly after a day of pulling
espresso because a lot of little ground
coffee fine pieces got caught around the
seams and they just wouldn't knock out
so they'll need a wash fairly regularly
it'd be using it for that if you're
gonna pull suppressor everyday buy an
espresso grinder buy something focused
for that you could have way more control
as for the quality of shots they were
pretty good I liked the espresso that I
got from this grinder I generally
preferred shots a little bit slower than
I otherwise would would say amethyst one
so the shots I enjoyed were more like 30
32 seconds
however pulling a shot to say 35 seconds
for that same ratio didn't taste as good
started to just get a little too sort of
harsh just didn't finish well so that's
what a 28 to 32 second window for me for
the style of espresso that I'm drinking
for the style coffee beans that I'm
working with that worked pretty well I
guess at this point I should go for like
a final final final summary right it's
our final summary and I've had a couple
of days to think about this I think it's
a very good grinder for the money I
think it's a great filter grinder for
the home and it does have its issues
it's not a great espresso grinder but
it's not supposed to be and there are
the issues that brought up but if we'll
fix them and released a second version
well they're not such big deals that I
would consider it worthwhile upgrading
to a newer version so that's kind of an
interesting metric for me to consider
when I think about is that really an
issue or not
so overall expensive but well-built
pretty great I will be making it a part
of my daily brewing routine that's the
will for uniform
