## Topic: Brewing At Home Q&A

<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yZkIoU4OO5A>

everyone how's it going welcome nice to
see you all here this is this is my
first proper stream which is exciting a
little bit terrifying actually so I
guess those of you who are watching if
you've seen my other videos you will get
to understand the value of editing so I
just been having a little look through
there are a few different questions
already popping up I will do my best to
kind of monitor the chat happening here
because there's you know there's plenty
questions coming through and I'll pick a
few so today we're gonna talk about
brewing at home and I guess that's
brewing at home if you're a coffee pro
that's maybe talking about how to help
customers brew at home maybe if you just
make coffee at home you want to chat ask
questions then we can talk about
whatever you want to talk about I guess
we're gonna run maybe half an hour
that's you know a little bit longer if
you guys have loads of questions and you
wanna keep going we'll go a little bit
longer but I'm figuring like half an
hour it's probably it's pretty pretty
good so I'm gonna get in there and
firstly thank you all for coming down
watching this is quite a lot of you here
right now that's a little bit a little
bit terrifying now quite early on Nick
Whitely asked a question which was how
to train your palates to tell the
difference between bitter and sour
flavours and actually this is kind of a
big deal because bitter sour confusion
is is a known thing in the taste world
right there's plenty of papers on if you
googled bitter sour confusion you find a
lot of people confuse the two now sour
is actually pretty simple sour is simply
the presence of acidity if you want to
get right into it your tongue
measures free hydrogen ions crossing
barriers and that's how it detects
acidity there's lots of different types
of acidity that do taste different the
simplest thing to do with that is is
like think about stuff like like fruit
fruit is pretty the easiest most fun
place to get acid without really much in
the way of bitterness
so lemons oranges grapefruits well grape
is a little bitter so I canceled that
apples pineapples everything like that
that sort of fresh feeling down the side
of the tongue now taste Maps tongue maps
are wrong you know you have taste
receptors for everything all over the
tongue so pretty much you go and buy a
bunch of fruit taste it in terms of
bitter actually tonic is a particularly
good benchmark for kind of bitterness
and there's a very cool experiment you
can do if you get some tonic and you get
some table salt has to be real no no I D
insult aliens old slowly add the salt to
the tonic a stir and taster and taste
for most people the salt will begin to
suppress the sensation of bitterness
which is kind of fascinating all right
I'm gonna detract it that isn't about
home brewing but but just go and taste a
bunch of stuff taste a bunch of fruit
and then yeah when it comes to coffee
under extracted tends to be more acidic
they're very difficult to get these days
over extracted or a dark roast is gonna
be full of bitterness alright let's jump
into some brewing questions and and
Manny Mack did poster what's everyone
drinking right now feel free free to
throw into the chat what you're drinking
and if I'm talking too fast you just say
cuz that we've got a lot to cover but I
don't want to talk so fast that it's
kind of you know too intense so let's
have a little scroll down there is stuff
I was going to talk about we can start
with some questions you know Scott age
asks if there's any reliable cheap
method of measuring TDs at home no not
really
refractometers are pretty much the only
way to do that accurately
there are refractometer that are cheaper
than others and this turns an Internet
by using cheaper refractometers
in order to get good coffee TDS readings
there Socratic coffee I think did a
whole bunch of stuff with that one if I
miss your question feel free to ask it
again I'll try not to
interesting question here which is in
terms of flavor what's the difference
between drip and immersion I don't think
you can necessarily tell the difference
between drip and immersion primarily the
the filtration method is always going to
have the biggest impact going from one
extreme which would be metal filtration
which might be a French press which
might be a metal cone might be the
little metal disc you can get for
Aeropress they're gonna let through all
the soluble material and that a bunch of
insoluble material tiny pieces of coffee
often so you tend to get a fuller richer
heavier mouth filled from metal metal
filters and then at the other extreme
you've got paper so you're kind of
classic paper filter and different
papers have different thicknesses tend
to clean up papers I'm sorry they tend
to clear up coffee a different amount
Chemex papers for example are super
thick I don't really like them I don't
really love the Chemex it's another
story and then in the middle is cloth
which people have mostly forgotten about
kind of a good reason because cloth is
so hard to maintain right like you
keeping cloth tasting good is quite
difficult it's very easy for cloth
filters to taste like the washing that
you forgot from yesterday in the machine
smells that kind of like disgusting wet
wrong kind of voice tea smell cloth
filter so it can develop that really
easily but cloth filters are probably my
favorite filters from a mouthfeel
perspective because you get like lovely
clarity but just a little bit more
textured like a little bit more body I
competed in the world Brewers Cup and I
basically did an immersion brew filtered
through cloth and I was I was pretty
good I didn't win okay I came second but
there was a good time it was it was a
kind of nice marriage of methods what I
would argue into the drip versus emotion
is that immersions just like a little
bit easier to to do a good job whether
it's a little bit easier to do an even
extraction with because all the coffee's
pretty much being treated equally
whereas if you have a drip brew that's
percolation water is passing through
coffee and that passage may not be
completely even down to like a pouring
kettle or at the extreme of espresso and
like a pressured Channel
okay I'm trying to catch up because
you've asked a lot of questions which is
kind of amazing
um okay here we go Bob
do I like the coffee from around Hilde
roastery I do I like the people to which
inevitably you know it kind of goes hand
in hand they're lovely and if you you
know them say hi where are we getting -
okay I will slow down faith sorry I'm
speaking too fast let me let me just
just darted down I'm not drinking coffee
because that would not help at this time
of the day
okay so there's a question asked to talk
briefly about water if I'm honest water
is the single biggest frustration for me
as a coffee professional you know as
someone who roasts coffee and sells it
to people to drink at home water is
probably the biggest barrier between
them having the experience that I want
them to have between you know them
getting the taste notes that are on the
bag the basics of water and what is
hugely complicated and it's not really a
simple answer there's been tons and tons
and tons of work done on kind of best
water for coffee and it's always kind of
a range I would go with you know the S
CAS guidelines have been around a really
long time which are you know about three
degrees of calcium off the top of my
head I wanna say like around about 50 to
60 parts per million but then I'm
matching alkalinity now someone's gonna
catch me out on this but I feel like
it's in the region of like 40 50 parts
per million and and you say you have
these two main constituents of water
right you've got the minerals and then
you've got the buffer and Max walk Alana
Dashwood did a bunch of work on water
for coffee because he was registrated
that we were really just talking about
water from a TDS perspective a total
dissolved solids which is kind of that's
the total of what's in here but not what
the constituent parts are and he did
work on like how
different minerals affect extraction
right so so magnesium if you have the
same amount of magnesium as you in one
water as calcium in another they'll
extract differently they'll have a
different flavor profile and then if you
don't have enough but if you have too
much buffer that'll go from being kind
of harsh through to being just muted
bland boring might be alkalinity is is
the buffer realistically in our homes
you know that the the best thing we can
do is either harass our local coffee
businesses to give us water to brew with
most good cafes have ro on-site I see no
reason that they couldn't give or sell
for a tiny price some of the water that
they used to brew you know take 2-liter
empty plastic bottle with you take some
water home for the next couple days I
don't think that's a ridiculous thing if
you live in London filter it as as hard
as you can
like Brita filters generally will remove
some taste and odor and reduce the
hardness a little bit but they're not
they're not fantastic and then you're
stuck with like bottled water which yeah
it's good in terms of you can buy
bottled water with the right kind of
mineral contents but I'm not really
super into you know buying endless
plastic bottles of water I put a sort of
semi commercial filter on my kitchen tab
because I'm a little bit weird and I I
can but even that you know it's not it's
not an ideal setup it's not nearly as
good as the water at square miles row
story there for a while I used to take
like a five liter Jerry came home every
whatever it was ten days or so to drink
with so wha-what is kind of a nightmare
what I would recommend it and is the
best to choose is is something that's
probably close to what the roaster is
using right so email your local roaster
they absolutely will know what their
waters like and if you're going to try
and buy a bottled water to match that
that should be pretty doable if you've
got their specs but that that's what
they'll be benchmarking against okay how
would I recommend storing coffee dark
dry airtight right don't put it in the
fridge or freezer if it's if it's a
small amount you're gonna get through
that pretty quickly certainly don't
leave it Oh
in a fridge because they're extremely
dry places and coffee can absorb any
odors in the fridge so Tupperware if you
don't have a bean storage jar the little
zip seals on bags are pretty great and
then yeah just put it in the cupboard as
long as your kitchen isn't crazy hot
it'll be fine it'll be fine
scrolling down this is good I hope you
having fun one of my thoughts on Tomic
espresso it's okay I I actually prefer
what Gareth who's the trainer
square-mile does on a hot day which is
filtered coffee and tonic I tend to find
the bitterness of an espresso chilled
down just just to push the drink out
balance for me personally a little bit
so I kind of like a filter tonic mixture
I think that can be very delicious okay
I'm scrolling down you got a lot of
questions so Sam ting asks if my grinder
has less than ideal distribution what is
the best way to improve that it depends
how wasteful you're willing to be one of
the best improvements to have us to take
a domestic sieve which usually a
domestic sieve the holes are about a
millimeter so a thousand microns we're
doing that thing if you sift out the big
bouldery pieces from your coffee that
will definitely definitely definitely
improve the taste of the cup however
depending on the quality of your grinder
that might be 15-20 percent of the
coffee that you bought and ground if
you're worried you have a problem with
fine pieces you want to do a quick hack
get some kitchen roll some kitchen paper
lay it out on the table
pour your ground coffee onto it and then
sort of smash it in like rub it into the
paper and that causes all the little
fines to get trapped in the kitchen roll
when you shake off all the grounds
you'll end up with way less fines in
that mix taste that see if that's
improved you a cup of coffee both
methods are unfortunately a little bit
wasteful okay
clever dripper I would love to do a
clever dripper how to that's on the list
of brew guides pour over
still first and on the way well with
this thing jumps me around here okay
can you brew espresso with an arrow
press or is this a myth this is a myth
espresso if you want to get into real
real espresso espresso requires really
really quite high pressures that's it's
it's 9 bars is typically what a coffee
machine will be pushing water throughout
which equates to about a hundred and
thirty pounds of pop force per square
inch now I did the math briefly on on
the square the size of an arrow press
puck and the amount of force I can apply
to that and I can get a little bit over
a bar of force right so you just can't
match the really really really high
pressure of espresso brewing with your
with your hand with your body you just
can't apply enough force across a pretty
big pack of coffee bigger still than an
espresso basket so so no not really you
can make super delicious coffee but I
would argue no it's not espresso it will
never really have crema because you
won't reach the kind of pressure you
need to super saturate the the liquid
with co2 right at high pressures water
hot water can absorb way more co2 than
it cannot low pressures and what happens
in espresso brewing is when the water is
traveling through the park of coffee it
soaks up a lot of co2 but the moment it
escapes the basket it goes back to being
an atmospheric pressure and it can't
keep the co2 in solution anymore and it
comes out as a tiny bubble lots of tiny
bubbles those get caught in the coffee
and they form a foam and that's
basically what crema is it's the co2
that water can no longer keep hold off
so to answer the question no you can't
make espresso with an arrow press in my
opinion what's my approach for darling
and new to me coffee
Scott edge can you clarify that one I
have a looked later down do you mean
with espresso like dialing in at home
espresso wise and answer that if that's
the case I'll check your answer in a
second is the v60 superior to the Chemex
I'm gonna go with superior I might just
state my preference I probably prefer
the v62 the Chemex I don't really love
the Chemex papers and Chemex is really
easily get a little airlock where the
paper perfectly adheres to like the cone
and some people use the chopsticks
method where you kind of create a little
air gap so that you know air can get out
and water can go in so I'm not I'm not a
huge Chemex fan they're very beautiful
I'm glad I own one but I'm not I'm just
not crazy about a chemically as twas the
Beth Brooke well this is this is where
editing is a beautiful thing
what's the best brewing method to
highlight bright fruity notes in coffee
it's a really good question actually um
I tend to prefer those kind of coffees
paper filtered for sure just clean and
vibrant I tend to find for me personally
that a little bit more sediment or
insoluble material can mute things
you've met the textures nice as for brew
method I don't think I don't think you
can say conclusively this one is better
than that one I think there might be
techniques are the things you might want
to brew for me a little hotter make sure
your water is really pretty hot with a
light roast like that to get it to get a
good full extraction and then maybe brew
a slightly quicker side slower brewing
tends to round things out a little bit
more for a similar TDS so yeah Jeff you
asked about poor love the specifics I am
working on a pour-over video so a lot of
that will be covered I hope in the
future Sean you asked what the best
grinder for pour-over is for a thousand
or less a thousand watt euros pounds
dollars I mean it's all getting its
Carolee close to the same thing you know
that is a really good question
because that is a kind of underserved
section on the market brats are making
some grinders in that kind of a price
point but not a lot of other people are
there's a bunch of espresso grinders
there but there's not a lot of filter
grinders there and I think for a long
time very few people have wanted to
spend that much money on a grinder that
really just does filter
because I don't think there's really any
grinder that does both super well let's
stay away from the EK 43 is a topic
because that's a three whatever three
thousand pound euro dollar grinder but
there's not a not a lot there I would
say check out some of the the brats of
stuff I hear the latest version of the
set a is is working much better but
that's really still an espresso grinder
I think first and foremost okay someone
asked what my opinion on on coffee
distributors are I haven't used them a
ton I've never been an enormous fan of
them I I haven't seen an enormous
improvement in quality but for me my you
know demands are slightly different I
want the quickest easiest laziest way to
a really great espresso and for me for
the extra work I haven't necessarily
seen the uptick in quality or
consistency other people's experience
may vary so Kang is asking about about
water at the moment besides third way of
water
besides colonna's project this is really
not a lot we haven't been a vocal
interesting market for people to sell
water into until now you know really
only in the last couple of years has
water been like a hot topic that people
have really wanted to get into so no
one's really selling product or water to
that market yet
I don't hate the Chemex by the way yeah
coop I'm just I'm just not I'm just not
super into it okay Aaron museum I hope I
answered your question which is no you
can't really mimic espresso with an ax
repress atom D I I have a bunch of data
I've had like a thermocouple and a data
logger inside a bunch of different V
sixties and I will publish that data to
determine how much of an impact the
material has and whether or not a
preheated plastic is better or worse
than a preheated glass or metal v60 so
that's coming in the poor above
you madam AK should there be a Michelin
star system for cafes and Roasters no
mostly because Michelin is a stupid
corrupt limiting unhelpful biased
organization that I don't really rate
you know I think it's pushed so many
restaurants to be something that's not
in their core DNA that I would hate to
see it do the same thing to cafes I
think we already have a lot of issues
with cafes not really truly expressing
themselves and having a really distinct
personality and then setting a bunch of
criteria that they should jump through I
think I think will unfortunately push
cafes to be more homogeneous and more
boring which is the last thing in the
world that I would want to see I would
want something that sends it the other
way that isn't pampering them I'm
getting off topic okay wait I saw an
answer to a question there you've asked
a lot of questions I'm doing my best
I'm doing my best on these damn it I
just lost where I was this this chat
thing is a killer um okay I feel like
someone said yes it was darling him for
espresso so I'm gonna answer that how
would I approach a coffee to darling for
espresso I tend to start with a fixed
recipe now my recipe is a little bit
more than two to one so I'll probably
start with a dose appropriate to the
basket in my machine I keep an 18-grand
basket in my machine from VST so I
probably started an 18 gram dose and I
would probably start at a minimum of 40
out so a little bit more than twice the
weight of the coffee in two-to-one is a
good place to start for most people I
just I like a little bit more length in
my espresso it also gives me a little
bit more clarity and extraction which I
value so I'll pull that to maybe 28 to
30 seconds right I'll dial in my grind
till I hit that rough kind of brew time
and what I'll do is I'll have a set of
scales away my in and I'll brew and time
how long it takes to get to my output
weight right and I'll just my grind
until that takes 28 to 30 seconds and
we're there on a typical setup which is
at work it's a black eagle and then I'll
taste it and I'll make some decisions
there if I want to play with the the the
DOS I'll make a few different decisions
if I'm desperate to make a quick change
without wasting much coffee then I might
use the dose of the ground coffee right
I might dose it up a little bit to try
and increase strength and maybe change
the recipe that way if I've got tons of
the coffee to work with I'll tend to
keep my dose in pretty fixed right and
then just adjust my output weight using
my grind using time to explore the
coffee a little bit by and large if my
first sort of on recipe shot is a little
tart I'll just push that same shot with
the same grinds heading a little bigger
and let it run to say thirty to thirty
three seconds just to see what using a
bit more water does to that extraction
if I feel that the shots a little empty
then I'll probably straightaway jump to
the grind knocking a little finer pull a
little shorter at some point I am I am
kind of lazy I'm a little bright though
at some point at some point I kind of
will write off a coffee I will assume at
some point there's a roast issue and
maybe that's because you know as a
roaster I'm constantly looking for roast
issues that's the kind of biggest thing
on my mind is what may have gone wrong
with this roast that's what I'm trying
to assess rather than you know that the
espresso particularly but that's kind of
my mindset it's it's get to a good
starting point that I know typically
works with most pretty soluble coffees
and then make some changes to try and
improve that by just messing with the
extraction primarily using the ratio of
water to ground coffee okay someone has
to have any tips for burst of
competitions one of my next videos I'm
going to do like a like a director's
commentary style thing of my world
Brister championship performance to kind
of talk you through what I was trying to
do what I was thinking hopefully there's
some useful insights in that Alex when I
say could you all I do mean paper towel
yeah
kitchen kitchen paper okay here we go
Linton Chizik asks a really good
question actually which is if your taste
is towards a conventional Italian style
espresso is there a way to make third
floor what Rea wave roasts work for you
my experience they make good milk drinks
but only darker roasts make you a good
espresso so by and large unfortunately
not not easily there's not much you can
do with a lighter roast of a higher
grown more aesthetic coffee to have it
mimic that that typical Italian profile
now Italian espresso is history he comes
out of a mixture of their colonial past
to some extent coupled with the fact
that they were not a wealthy country
during the boom of espresso post-world
War two when I suppose our really picked
up they were not you know the greatest
economy on earth and so the coffee's
being bought by Italian Roasters were
cheaper coffees ultimately and and they
were Brazilian Naturals they were robust
as coffees from Indonesia all of which
happened to also be relatively low
acidity coffees okay so that's the sort
of where the original espresso style
kind of came from it was the copy's kind
of available to them and that set the
expectation of espresso to be a
relatively high bodied reasonably bitter
but kind of low acidity full-on thing
they're kind of raw materials used by a
lot of third wave companies just just
won't work we've had a real issue in
meeting the demands of people like you
because we felt that if we took those
kind of raw materials and and roasted
them to the point of being a little
lower acidity that we'd have would have
burnt away some of the stuff that we
loved in them that we bought for them I
think some companies are starting to
give a little and and there are
certainly some specialty coffee
companies trying to do more developed
roasts sort of darker roasts I for fear
of seeming like I'm I'm throwing shade
on them I'm not going to name anyone
right now but certainly like have an
explorer of the different Roasters in
your neighborhood and chances are a
couple will be doing something a little
bit duck a chat to your Burris to ask if
they've got something a little lower
acidity a little bit more body and they
may get you something really well grown
something traceable something with a
slightly perhaps better ethical standard
than a lot of coffee going into Italian
espresso blends but that may then suit
your palate so that's a great question
who how often should you deeply in your
espresso machine and grinder at home
Joseph that's a good question
I okay espresso machines work this way
the less often you use them the the
dirtier they get in a way right because
after you pull a shot if you don't rent
that machine out whatever residue is in
there will sit probably thirty twenty
four hours and either cook or just go
stale so if you're your daily routine is
pretty tight I would back flush with
chemical I would go every day right I
just want I just want that machine
sitting clean the whole time at least
every 3-4 days get a little just a
little bit of chemical in there a bunch
of good ones out there a bunch of
organic non-toxic ones out there that
all work very well but but really it
cannot be too clean
the idea that you have to season a
coffee machine I think is is not true
grinders a little bit different and it
depends how comfortable you are deep
cleaning your grinder there are a bunch
of grinder cleaning products out there I
think mark kernig make one called grinds
that works pretty well that binds up
some of the stuff that accumulates
around the burrs
if you're pretty comfortable taking it
to pieces then I would say a deeply in
every couple of weeks is pretty plenty
if you're pulling quite a lot of shots
if you're making quite a lot of coffee
then yeah weekly would be a good idea
but again you know you just don't want
stuff to build up you don't want oils to
turn around seared and start to
contribute negative flavors there is no
downside
other than the time invested to cleaning
a lot there's a question on londonium
are I have not used it people seem to
like it but I'm afraid I
offer you any insight go guard Satria if
I should say your name wrong I'm really
sorry asks how do I achieve a consistent
brew everyday
how are you brewing and I'll try and
come back to that will I haven't used
the Nano press oh very much I'm afraid
and Aeryn I don't know the bellman
stovetop milk steamer I'd be interested
what kind of challenge you're having
with it is it just not powerful enough
where you struggle to get a good kind of
emotion steamy milk is about sum of two
phases an initial starting phase where
you want the tip of the steam wand right
on the surface of the milk where you
hear that kind of slurping sound and
you're injecting air you're kind of
dragging air into the milk once you've
added the air that you want you should
do no more adding of air and ideally you
should do all of the adding of the air
before the milk feels warm to the touch
if you're steaming in a milk pitcher the
second phase is really all about
churning that's about texture that you
don't add any excess bubbles will stay
kind of big what you want to do is churn
as much as you can just spin just see
that milk roll and spin around and that
knocks the bubbles down to be smaller
and smaller and smaller and smaller and
the stronger story the smaller a bubble
is the stronger it is right so you're
your milk foam that only feels nicely to
drink but will last a lot longer
the bubble size is really tied to its
strength so Aaron I don't know the issue
you are having but just technique wise
just make sure you're trying to whip in
any air right right right at the start
and then you spend seventy percent on
that time just using the steam to swirl
the milk around okay which kind of ties
to Kevin's question how do i steam heat
milk froth up at home what tools you
have if you go and check out the if you
googled chefsteps mocker pot there's a
there's a quick demo of how to brew a
mocker pot and we also talked about
making foamed milk in a French press and
we pour little otter out with it it's
not my greatest pour I'll be honest but
you know it's it's an interestingly
effective way to make not terrible milk
foam at home with a French press
how do you convince a local spirit eShop
to hire you
part-time as a full-time student you
know I don't know what the barrier to
that it's lots of places need part-time
people be willing to do all the jobs
that need doing be keen to do all the
jobs that need doing all the cleaning
all the less fun stuff if you're there
and you just want to just learn about
coffee part-time that's less valuable to
that business being in there to help
everyone else make that place run
smoothly and spend as much time as you
can around that learning that's much
more attractive to people okay okay
Scott I now need to answer having seen
you wanted me to talk about darling in a
new pour over so that having answered
espresso I should now answer forever
really
that's just grind right like I have my
fixed recipe I brew 60 grams per litre
so I at home I tend to brew a 45 gram to
750 in the morning as they're sort of
family brew and then essentially I'm
just using the grind setting and the the
best tip I can give for quickly darling
in is go as fine as you can until you
hit the Sun wall of bitterness and when
it suddenly gets bitter like one morning
your brew will be like oh oh that one
step coarser again it's pretty much the
sweet spot for that coffee you'll be
getting maximum extraction without
starting to get some of the bitter
unpleasant stuff so that's definitely
the way to go
okay proper okay I'm assuming that's
Niall there with the who do I look to
most in the coffee industry that's a
great question which we're going to save
maybe for an industry discussion this is
about brewing at home we're gonna try
and keep it on brewing at home
I don't know this starry so iqbal I feel
suddenly like people want to be able to
throw links in here so I can just check
stuff out does the amount of water used
to bloom coffee affect the brew okay so
yes sort of you need to use enough water
that you are confident that all of the
coffee gets wet at the start of the brew
okay so for that reason I'm also very
Pro stirring my bloom because what's
critical to me is that the coffee all
starts blooming or starts brewing at
pretty much the same time the old-school
method that I learned first was they're
kind of very delicate pour with the
pouring kettle on to that nice bed of
coffee and you sort of wait for it to
seep through men that the coffee on the
top of that bed started brewing probably
15 seconds before the coffee at the
bottom of that bed that's not okay for
me so you want to make sure that you
have enough water to completely wet all
of the coffee when you stir it for me
double the weight of of coffee as water
is not quite enough often especially if
I don't have a super delicate pouring
kettle so I tend to use between two and
three times the weight of the coffee but
I just want to make sure that all of
that coffee gets wet that it gets a good
stir that's really really the important
part of me of blooming okay there's a
question on coffee ratios now a lot of
people think in the 1 to 16 1 to 17 1 to
15 kind of thing my brain can't do that
because I'm not always the smartest
person especially when I haven't had
that much coffee so I think in in terms
of grams per liter there is no right
answer here right there is there is
broadly speaking there's good and bad in
terms of extraction but in terms of a
recipe that is entirely about preference
I prefer typically 60 grams per liter
which i think is about 1 to 15 14 15 and
it's someone check for me but if you
prefer stronger that's totally fine you
know it's about finding the kind of
preference you like I know how strong I
want my cup of coffee to be for me to
enjoy it I know that I don't really
enjoy coffee above a certain strength
and below a certain strength as a filter
coffee but but that aside that's that
the key kind of important stuff when it
comes to ratios okay I'm just gonna
scroll down a little bit so I asks what
can one do if you like roasted coffee
still taste under extract that are not
sweet at 21
five say yet not dead you're asking
about about you know you're doing a
pretty good job extracting it in the
setup you have and it still doesn't
taste sweet
at that point probably the coffee may be
at fault it may not be an adequately
developed coffee it may not have the
sweetness that you want in it if you're
confident that the raw materials are
good if you cut them or tasted them and
then you're still getting this issue
then I probably look at first day at
your water quality does it match you
know the Roasters water quality and then
secondly potentially at the kind of the
grind quality now this is some work I
really want to do and it's actually a
great way to just sort of test the
quality of a grinder now when you brew a
pour-over those those grounds absorb
some water right so if you put 500 grams
of hot water into a pour over you won't
get 500 grams of coffee at the other
side right because those grounds will
soak up approximately two grams of water
program of coffee right so offended 30
to 530 grams of coffee 500 water I would
expect to lose at least sixty grams of
water to the to the coffee itself which
means that maximum out I should have
like 440 realistically you probably
going to get close like 4:30 to 4:35
grinders that produce tons of fines
absorb way more water right the surface
area the coffee does impact how much it
absorbs and if you start to get say 420
out chances are you've got a grind issue
similarly if you get more water than you
expected out you're getting sort of
boulders and unpleasant pieces so that's
a quick kind of check on that kind of a
thing I hope that answers okay I've got
so many questions here a lot of eggs X's
I should try the flour espresso maker
one arrived today look for that in a
future video I've never played with it
before but I'm super excited to play
with it Eric you asked what I'm using my
v60 at home it often turns out kind of
bland and I can't achieve the same
flavors as my local shop see if you can
get some of that local shops water to
take home and try that by with the first
thing to check just ask them for like a
bottle of their brewing water they will
be able to do that if they're not I
don't know
this is family-friendly so I'll use only
nice words if they're not cool that's a
problem but if they're called don't just
give me some brewing wanted to try if
you you know and see if that helps if
not probably then grinders may be an
issue well then what does spinning not
spoon mean I'm confused and nice to see
you here hanging out with us have I
reviewed the Breville BES 920 Joule
baller Jason I've used it a couple of
times the one without the grinder built
in it's pretty stable temperature wise
it brews well I don't have any issues
with it I think it's nice I haven't no I
think they have a new version out with a
touchscreen - I'm not sure but Breville
they're quietly putting together some
pretty solid espresso machines I am
overall pretty impressed with them so
many questions I feel I feel like I'm
I'm just losing all sorts of stuff here
Jonathan the hair is not perfect but one
day we can dream okay will asks how long
should I wait before using coffee that
was just roasted with espresso this is
probably a bigger deal because that
rapid outgassing is definitely a
challenge in an espresso brewing
environment so I tend to prefer stuff at
least at least five days old bearing in
mind
the conditions that you store coffee and
do affect this quite a lot that if your
coffee is kept very cold it will take
longer to kind of D gas an H out a
little bit until it's easy to brew very
fresh coffee is just difficult to
extract which is a which is a kind of
frustrating challenge with with filter
coffee I don't mind as much right
because blooming helps a little bit it's
just less of a pressured environment
less of a pressured brew
I don't mind coffee three four five days
old and onwards from that point that's
kind of fine by me and in terms of
waiting I don't want to wait that long
but yeah espresso a little bit different
than different someone asked what I use
to calculate extraction I do use the BST
apps in there I was a beta tester for
for Vince in in terms of VST products I
you know I got to test the very first
refractometer I got to test the early
iterations of the VST baskets I have
long been a fan of his work I am not
paid to say that but I do I do like his
stuff so I tend to use his apps and all
that kind of stuff
what I recommend freezing coffee beans
if I was to go away for a couple of
weeks and not want to you know I've got
some great coffee at home then yes
absolutely I would pack that up
airtight put it in Tupperware seal it
down and freeze it you know it's
freezing it properly like that will do
it no damage and it will certainly help
extend its lifespan there are people
experimenting with kind of like getting
the coffee in freezing it all and then
pulling it out and you know grinding it
frozen the the paper on frozen coffee I
didn't think was as compelling as people
seem to think it wasn't as I recall they
were you know they were freezing at
incredibly low temperatures that are not
you know realistic to replicate in a
domestic freezer but yeah that's uh
that's that I'm okay with freezing on
the condition that you you know you know
you're not gonna you know be using that
coffee regularly you know if you go in a
way you want to keep it it's pretty good
way to go
only forty likes I mean if you wanna
throw some likes my way you know I'm not
gonna be you know one of those youtubers
that's like you know no I don't want to
be I don't want to be that it's so
tedious but if you want to subscribe
that would make me feel good it's very
motivating subscribers are very
motivating but they're kind of begging
for subscribers that is that is kind of
I've done it I don't feel good about it
but you know if you want to feel like
you want to throw that it's up to you
you do you that's cool Ryan oh are all
EC ste one group
no they are not yeah
Jocelin 100 please give me work I got my
glasses from these were in disclosure
these were broken gift from a glasses
company called bond of London a guy who
runs that sir bold bold bold a bond bold
and brain bold of London
they're super great these are custom
said I love them to death he's amazing
I'll throw him that the qalam okay this
so ghulam davis will burst the champion
love to see you in in the chat here I
was talking about stirring a bloom I
definitely prefer to stir a bloom I
prefer a stir well in terms of the swirl
that's for me at the end of the brew
where I'm trying to knock coffee off the
walls of the v60 where I'm happy with a
little swirl Scott I think Scott's got
the name now I feel like we've talked
about it with Scott it's now the rouse
well but you know I'm not gonna say it's
the hoffmans well but that's another
thing for another day but but I
definitely prefer to get in there with a
spoon for my bloom for sure all right I
mean and their little bamboo things are
kind of fun but a teaspoon is probably
fine
just make sure with both the bamboo and
the spoon then as soon as you start
brewing again you just rinse off any
coffee from that from that spoon or
bamboo thing because otherwise just it's
just sitting there not brewing feeling
left out and that's very sad and it's a
you know not insignificant quantity of
coffee to just have bought and they're
not very properly so you know rinse that
thing off clean George asks when are we
gonna have a Q&A on roasting I mean it
depends who's answering the questions
because I am NOT a roaster I mean I love
the process I am fascinated by it
I Drive the roasting team at square mile
crazy with my interest in it but I'm not
a roaster and I should not pretend to be
one on the internet so my roasting QA
would be pretty light on substance
because I just be very nervous to to
sort of talk too much on a subject that
I don't feel is mind to talk about maybe
I can get that team to scrum our team in
and they can do the QA they
we'll probably hate that as an idea
someone asked about the mahkum master
what's my view I loved the Mokka master
I had one for quite a long time I
definitely prefer the ones with the the
carafe the thermal carafe and not the
hot plate don't like a hot plate I will
say and this is not just Makka master
why is it so hard for people to make a
carafe there pause nicely because the
the maca master that awkward does the
poor is never good this is the willful
ones it's not great the Breville I have
at home not that good either I'm just
gonna dress me like crazy there okay but
my master great Brooke I tend okay brew
tip I tend to close the basket so he's
got it's got open half open and then
closed right so I brew closed to start I
let maybe 250 Ishmael's in and I give
that a good stir initially and then
another stir as I open it just so I get
some emotion at the start and a really
nice even extraction of that bit and
then I don't mind the percolation
flowing and behind that so that's that's
me when I see a benefit and selling
retail coffee in smaller package sizes
it's a real tricky one because we have a
square mile we just sell in
approximately twelve ounces which is 350
grams or 341 exactly what we don't do
that that's my preferred size because
it's good for espresso it's not
frustrating and for a lot of people it's
a get'em nice amount what I would
probably recommend doing is if you
struggle to get through it by that to a
bounce bag take half out freeze it right
something airtight into some Tupperware
into the freezer it will be fine while
you get through the other half of that
bag but yeah you know if you if these
loads of Roasters do smaller sizes I've
seen down to like 150 grams in some
places but yeah okay I'm just trying to
catch up on this chat wanna chat very
exciting can home users probably do
justice to Geisha coffee Dan yes yes
okay sure okay so is just an interesting
variety to me it's light and it's
delicate I would it's expensive right
and that's the bit where
ah it's a lot of money often which is
interesting because it's certainly not a
scarcity thing anymore no one really
asked us why it's so expensive now but
if your water is good if your grinder is
good then you absolutely you can enjoy
that coffee and it'll probably be way
cheaper per cup than buying it at a cafe
this try make some money on that so I
don't see why not
I would probably go for something like a
French press shockingly check out my
French press technique video because
it's super easy you'll get a really nice
extraction it's very hard to mess up and
it'll taste pretty great and thanks for
saying hi hello okay what are my
thoughts on espresso blends bring Brutus
filter I like it I am NOT against blends
in filter coffee and actually I'm
certainly are espresso blends
I've definitely brewed them all as
filter and enjoyed them as filter sure
red brakes a little bit more developed
than I would typically want in a filter
coffee but I think they can be really
delicious I really do I really a sweet
shop especially I think is a really
lovely filter coffee blend James asked
what camera I'm using it's a GH five so
thank you
it's Oroku asked i want to take part my
local air press championship do I have
any tips pick a recipe that you can do
consistently that sounds like a weird
thing to say but the amount of times
I've judged Aeropress championships and
and one cup has crushed just crushed the
first round been fantastic and that
competitors gone for the second round
and I just can't tell which is that
coffee you know it immune like it was
the best thing I tasted all day it's
that first cup in the first round but
that you know whatever they were doing
was a kind of inconsistent method that
meant that they didn't manifest as being
amazing the second time around so you
know that's that's what that's a kind of
big tip for me practice practice
practice practice
um practice under conditions of
competition most people can I think
about what they want to do but never run
a full practice session competitions are
super weird because you're suddenly
doing something you've never done before
which is make a coffee in front of lots
of people and it throws you throws you
off so
just that time compression practice
working out practice screwing up biggest
tip for burst a competition whether it's
whether it's Brewers Cup with us the WEC
whether it's arrow press practice making
a mistake so you know what to do
should you make one how are you gonna
make that time backup how you're gonna
get something tasty on the table I just
lose these things Phillip oh thank you
very much yeah yeah yeah I mean hey
Ollie I'm not gonna say as much that
like again which entry level especially
would I recommend house an ID give me a
budget because that's difficult to do
and really depends what you want from
espresso at home do you want just the
ability to do it or do you want to join
a hobby right just do you want to have
fun making espresso at home have I got a
chance to fight of the mellah drip no I
backed it on Kickstarter
I am patiently waiting for mine like I
suppose everyone else is it's a little
kind of pour over shower made of glass I
think basically I have they ship I
don't know did the ship anyone if anyone
has their mail address let me know but I
can't remember if they've shipped but I
have backed it so I'm excited for mine
all the available power of a Brewers
which is my favorite it's it's a review
that it's on hold because they're not
available in the UK yet but the Breville
/ Sage smart precision II whatever it is
I love that thing they lent that to me
I've been trying to buy it from them but
they seem to just I don't know no one
sent me an invoice yet but I will buy it
from them that brews up to 1.8 liters it
does it does a flat bottom basket it
does a cone-shaped basket it can adapt
to v6 tease it does different
temperatures it's stable I was really
impressed by that brewer I really liked
that a lot but you know bear in mind
that yes they lent it to me I haven't
paid for it yet I've had it in my house
for six months you have to declare these
things do declare these things eazy-e
we're gonna do one we're gonna do a
livestream Q&A on business soon so like
business questions will hold those I'm
trying to I'm trying to keep vaguely on
the topic of brewing at home
I know how you feel I'm doing on that
but I'm trying best cup of coffee I ever
had
I can't answer that question I can
answer the worst one in a heartbeat
which is kind of also one of the best of
my life but but the best I don't know I
think I'm still waiting I've had like
monumental cups I've had like really
like Wow interesting
Wow moments one that stands out if
you've been in copy a while you'll heard
of a automatic pour of a machine called
the clover right which was which was
bought by Starbucks I think like seven
years ago now and that kind of
kick-started a lot of by the cup brewing
in cafes and I went to Clovis factory in
2007 and the lovely David luttrell was
working there and he's now with become
and just the best and he brewed one of
George Howells coffees it was there was
a Kenyan coffee called mo muto then they
brewed it like crazy hot with this
totally different like mesh filtration
screen and that was so good it was just
the most vibrant juicy ha kind of cup of
coffee I could remember that was really
impactful for me and that same trip had
some really fascinating cups of coffee I
had I had a shot of espresso at
Stumptown that was just really delicious
while chatting to a guy called Joel who
was roasting there at the time he now
and spammed the coffee I think in
Florida and it was a delicious espresso
and then he dropped afterwards that it
was decaf and that was one of those ones
around like I had no idea decaf could
just not taste like decaf and just taste
good which was horrific because it meant
that I could no longer get away with the
idea that decaf could be an acceptable
compromise because it can't be like the
decaf sucks that that's that there's no
excuse for sucky decaf it can be
fantastic it should be fantastic and I
feel sorry for decaf drinkers they're
drinking it because you know that they
like the taste of coffee they're not
even in it for the caffeine and they
usually get the worst tasting beverage I
think what mean to decaf drinkers Martin
okay thank you for the melon I will
chase them down I did I did okay maybe
that's I had a okay I think I think it's
been returned to them because I was away
when it was delivered
got returned to sender I'll chase it up
if beau asked any tips on brewing coffee
beans that have passed its peak taste
wise no I mean your your raw materials
are everything you know that you can't
improve upon them dramatically in any
particular way
once they're stale they're stale once
they're flat they're flat you know
there's nothing really we can do to
revive them or undo the damage done by
time so I want to ask you a question
about manual grinders I've used many
around as a bunch I've traveled with
them obviously I've traveled a lot and
it was nice to have something with me
they're hard work you know every time I
do it I'm into like a three-week trip
and that I'm just not super into that
the grind what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
get kind of the top five sort of hand
grinders and I'm gonna do a side-by-side
in a future video that's that's
something I want to do I want to get
some of the expensive ones if someone
will lend me one of those like the
comandante's you get assassin how some
hereo stuff if I can get some of the
orphan espresso stuff I will though
they're kind of a separate league
they're made by knock I just don't know
enough because I haven't used them side
by side you know I've used a pol X have
used hereos I've used comandante's I've
used uh some house I've had a reasonable
time with lots of them but I I'm
interested to kind of put them through
their paces side by side so one for the
future okay Errol mark would I like to
come to Turkey I would love to come to
Turkey at the moment I'm not doing very
much traveling so thank you but I'm kind
of I'm kind of home for a while Tim
asked about the decent I love the decent
it's still wrecking my head and and if
you if you follow Scott Rao's blog and
you'll see his crazy profile that he put
up that's just insane that's just been
wrecking my head and you know I'm
thinking maybe we could do it
dream John the founder of decent is
coming to London soon I might trying to
rope him in and we can do a little
livestream together that might be fun
we'll see but I I know I owe you more
videos on that I am getting to it life I
you know this is not what I do for a
living unfortunately I wish this was
some days what our different thing not
that I don't love what I do for a living
but you know it's it's hard to kind of
find the time in and around all of the
dumb things that I do for a living to
make videos so this is kind of a fun way
to spend Oh nearly an hour with all of
you all right
well holding steady there's a good
amount of you here okay I'll try and
answer like a few more questions
this Oroku asks about the four six yes I
have tried that method throw if you
don't know it it's a v60 pour of a
method developed by the world Brewers
Cup champion a lot of people have very
good results with it actually so it's
only one I would recommend people try if
they've had some frustrations with the
b60 but yeah I I am working on pour
about stuff okay let's okay I'm gonna go
we're gonna go we're gonna get a five
we're gonna go five more minutes because
I've talked for an hour now non-stop
which is not something people should be
allowed to do in this world okay Andy
Andy Kate asked if I could only buy
supermarket beans what would you buy
Andy are you in the UK if so Union hand
roasted are available in lots of
supermarkets I would only buy a whole
bean coffee so in most supermarkets
Union are available if you shop at a
Sainsbury's modern standard do some nice
stuff I think we're gonna start to see a
few more specialty roses leaked into
supermarkets you know I think the
competition for online is pretty intense
you know that's going to be one of the
next places to go I think where I was a
someone asked me a question there about
the crude sifter I've made
made a video about the crude sifter if
you search my youtube channel for crew
you'll find my you'll find my video
there no realistically it's not going to
fix a cheap grinder and make it just
like an ek and if it did you're gonna
waste just an enormous amount of coffee
doing so so and maybe wouldn't recommend
that
George is keeping up coming back um
maybe possibly maybe okay okay I mean
asks is it possible to detect
underdeveloped beans is it possible for
them to have a crust in cupping yes
obviously extremely light roasted
coffees don't really form a crust when
you when you cut them if you if you've
never done this at home it's it's a fun
way to test coffee you don't need
special bowls you can just use matching
sized cups and you just brew ground
coffee in hot water on top let it steep
and when that crust forms on top you
stir that scoop it off and then that
balls ready to taste but very light
rested coffees the crust never really
forms on top and it sinks straight away
if it's a little bit underdeveloped it
will still form a crust and you may
still get grassy or unpleasant flavors
in that coffee but it looks tall in
terms of purposes like it's fine
unfortunately the best way to test it is
by tasting that's the best way to detect
it Matthew thank you thanks for coming
and watching I will try and do more of
these Scott H favorite Roasters
currently I mean where in the world
there's a lot of great Roasters right
now to be honest I would think about
that one all of you saying lovely things
Thank You Karl ad asks about coffee with
almond coconut or oat milk I don't
really I don't really drink dairy
because I don't get on very well with
milk with the cow juice if you like
those star drinks I think there are now
some really pretty good alternative
milks out there
whether the environmental impact is a
separate question I don't really know I
know the environmental impact of milk in
terms of kilos of greenhouse gas per
liter of milk but I don't know for those
other ones that's one to sort of
consider a little bit but you know
there's certainly a bunch of of them out
there that taste fine you know what I
mean I think there's a couple of good
only do some good stuff minor figures do
some good Oh milk now are they're pretty
popular you know it's definitely
trending hard that way so they steam
okay they taste fine they're okay to
sort of if you enjoy them go for it I
don't enjoy the ones that have a
particularly strong taste so I've had
some coconut milks that taste very
strong and coconut and some of the taste
of almost nothing I would certainly
prefer the latter what's missing from
most of them is fat in fat in milk is a
glorious thing it does texture so well
feels so good but it also inhibits
bitterness right so you'll find that
like skim milk the coffee tastes more
intense but also more bitter than whole
milk and that's fat some the reason
being that some compounds in milk that
you know infants need are naturally
bitter I think particularly calcium
derived compounds and so milk has a
natural bitter blocking quality to it
particularly milk fat which seems to
just mute flavor as well okay you've got
a couple minutes left CERN asked will
this live stream be available online
later yes it will hopefully it has
recorded at 1080 and depending on this
is only 720 I know so I my tree up this
with a little editing afterwards and
have it archived there if the streams
okay at 720 am I just leave it as it is
it's up to you and how you all feel
alright
risky I'd love to save you some
square-mile coffee but not today but
good on you for asking you know if you
don't ask you don't get ask me again at
the next slide stream I'll think about
it
and okay couple more questions Jonathan
the question about a business please
come into a future live stream on the
coffee industry and coffee business and
I'd loved
answer that kind of question then Jack
asked you about plastic and coffee I
don't find that the the plastic in air
and press is selling modern air presses
contribute any negative flavors
certainly not not for not for me alright
last question who wants to wants to ask
it what about gets asked next I'll
answer and we'll wrap this up this is
your time to shine come on there's a
little lag I'm sorry for that
all right now while I wait for a next
question to pop into my live chat ah
that can squash into the u.s. totally
yes absolutely
Michael asks when is the next livestream
I don't think I can do these every week
right but I but I I feel like maybe
every fortnight maybe every month is
reasonable I think we'd run out of
topics pretty quickly and and and I'll
throw some quick answers in there
ristretto x' can be good they're not
just underdeveloped espresso rocket
machines there's some great ones
grandpa v60 web o Chemex v6 TR the
Kalita wave that'll do that'll do let's
wrap this up I will see you maybe in a
couple of weeks if you're subscribed
you'll see when I schedule my next live
stream hopefully if you've used the
scheduling function and enjoyed that let
me know your feedback you know leave
some comments let me know what you think
let me know what you want to see more of
or less of in the future I'm gonna wrap
this up right now I will say thank you
to the the hundreds of you that came and
asked questions and hung out this was a
ton of fun hopefully I'll see you soon
thanks again bye for now
